                            " lower; degrade; humiliate; make humble; make (oneself) lose self-respect",
                            " embarrass",
                            " subside or moderate",
                            " shorten",
                            " renounce; give up (position, right, or responsibility)",
                            " abnormal or deviant",
                            " deviation from the normal; mental disorder",
                            " assist usually in doing something wrong; encourage",
                            " suspended action",
                            " detest; hate",
                            " Dwell; abide by: comply with; put up with; tolerate; Ex. abide by the rules; Ex. I can't abide rude people.",
                            " (of a condition) wretched; as low as possible; lacking pride; very humble; showing lack of self-respect; Ex. abject apology",
                            " renounce upon oath",
                            " washing",
                            " renunciation; self-sacrifice; self-abnegation",
                            " dwelling place; home",
                            " cancel; put an end to",
                            " detestable; extremely unpleasant",
                            " loathe; hate",
                            " being the first of its kind in a region; primitive; native; indigenous; N. aborigine",
                            " unsuccessful; fruitless",
                            " rubbing away; tending to grind down",
                            " condense or shorten",
                            " abolish",
                            " cutting off; separation",
                            " depart secretly and hide",
                            " complete; totally unlimited; having complete power; certain; not relative; Ex. absolute honesty/ruler; CF. absolutism",
                            " pardon (an offense)",
                            " refrain; withhold from participation; intentionally not use one's vote;",
                            " sparing in eating and drinking; temperate",
                            " restraint from pleasant things, esp. eating or drinking; CF. abstention: act of abstaining from vote",
                            " theoretical; not concrete; nonrepresentational",
                            " obscure; profound; difficult to understand",
                            " coarsely insulting; physically harmful",
                            " border upon; adjoin",
                            " bottomless",
                            " enormous chasm; vast bottomless pit",
                            " related to a school; not practical or directly useful",
                            " agree",
                            " move faster",
                            " easy to approach; obtainable",
                            " additional object; useful but not essential thing",
                            " applaud; praise; greet with great approval; announce with great approval; Ex. The new drung has been acclaimed as the most important discoveries for years; N: strong expression of approval and praise",
                            " adjust to climate or environment; adapt",
                            " sharp upslope of a hill; OP. declivity",
                            " award of merit; strong praise and approval",
                            " oblige or help someone; adjust or bring into harmony; adapt; make enough space for; ADJ. accommodative; CF. accomodating: helpful and obliging",
                            " partner in crime",
                            " agreement",
                            " approach and speak first to a person",
                            " equip; N. accoutrement",
                            " growth or increase in size by gradual addition; growth; increase; increase by natural growth; Ex. towers and other accretions of the castle; V. accrete",
                            " come to one as a gain; accumulate over time; come about by addition; Ex. benefits that accrue from scientific research; Ex. interest accruing in a bank account; N. accrual",
                            " bitterness of speech and temper; ADJ. acerbic: bitter; acrid (in taste, manner, or tone)",
                            " vinegary",
                            " slightly sour (in taste or manner); sharp; caustic",
"recognize; admit ",
"peak; pinnacle; highest point ",
"skin disease (on the face) ",
"science of sound; quality that makes a room easy or hard to hear in ",
"assent; agree passively; comply without protest ",
"deliverance from a charge; V. acquit: free from a charge or accusation; discharge from a duty; conduct (oneself) in a specified manner ",
"bitter (to the taste or smell); sharp; bitterly pungent ",
"stinging; caustic; bitter in words or manner; N. acrimony: bitter ill-natured animosity in speech or behavior ",
"fear of heights ",
"calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics ",
"someone who advises insurance companies ",
"motivate; activate; cause to act ",
"sharpness (of mind or senses of sight or hearing) ",
"mental keenness; sharpness of judgment; ability to judge quickly and well; Ex. business acumen ",
"(of the senses) sharp; quickly perceptive; keen; penetrating; brief and severe; Ex. acute sense of smell/analysis/pain ",
"wise saying; proverb ",
"hard; inflexible ",
"make or become suitable for a specific use; alter; modify; adjust; N. adaptation: act of adapting; composition recast into a new form; Ex. The play is an adaption of a short novel. ",
"addition; appendix to book; something that is added (as at the end of a speech or book) ",
"compulsive habitual need ",
"make or become confused; muddle; drive crazy; become rotten (egg) ",
"direct a speech to; speak to; deal with or discuss; direct one's efforts or attention to; make with a destination; N: formal speech ",
"expert at; very skilled ",
"stick fast; be a devotd follower; N. adhesion: adhering; devotion; loyality ",
"supporter; follower ",
"adjoining; neighboring; close by ",
"be next to ",
                            " suspend until a later time; move from one place to another",
                            " something attached to but holding an inferior position",
                            " solemn urging; V. adjure: entreat earnestly; enjoin solemnly",
                            " staff officer assisting the commander; assistant",
                            " warn or speak to with gentle disapproval; reprove",
                            " love deeply and respect highly",
                            " decorate",
                            " skillful (in using mind or hand)",
                            " flattery; admiration that is more than is necessary or deserved",
                            " make impure or of poorer quality by adding inferior or tainted(contaminated) substances",
                            " arrival",
                            " accidental; casual; happening by chance",
                            " opponent; enemy",
                            " going against; opposing; unfavorable; hostile",
                            " great hardship or affliction; misfortune; calamitous event",
                            " refer",
                            " support; active pleading on behalf of someone or something",
                            " speak in favor of; support (an idea or plan); urge; plead for",
                            " shield; protection; defense",
                            " nest of a large bird of prey",
                            " artistic; dealing with or capable of appreciating the beautiful (of a person or building); CF. aesthete; CF. aesthetics",
                            " easily approachable; easy to talk to; warmly friendly",
                            " artificial; pretended",
                            " written statement made under oath (for use as proof in a court of law)",
                            " joining; associating with",
                            " feeling of kinship; similarity; Ex. strong affinity for her; Ex. many affinities between two languages",
                            " positive assertion; confirmation; solemn pledge by one who refuses to take an oath; V. affirm; ADJ. affirmative; CF. affirmative action: positive discrimination",
                            " state of distress; trial; cause of distress or suffering; V. afflict: inflict grievous suffering on",
                            " abundance; wealth",
"insult; offense; intentional act of disrespect; V: insult or hurt the feelings of intentionally ",
"life after death; later part of one's life ",
"openmouthed ",
"items of business at a meeting ",
"collection; heap; V. agglomerate: gather into a rounded mass; N. aggolmeate: jumbled mass; heap ",
"make greater; increase in power, wealth, rank, or honor; N. aggrandizement ",
"sum; total; ADJ. V: gather into a mass or whole; accumulate; add up to; Ex. aggregate 100 dollars ",
"filled with great surprise or fear; horrified ",
"nimbleness; ability to move quickly ",
"stir up; disturb ",
"one who is skeptical of the existence or knowability of a god or any ultimate reality ",
"highly excited; intensely curious ",
"pertaining to land or its cultivation; Ex. agrarian reform ",
"of air; high in the air; lofty; immaterial; unreal ",
"cheerful promptness without reluctance ",
"medieval chemistry ",
"nook; recess ",
"an assumed name esp. by a criminal (usually to mislead people); ADV. alias ",
"make unfriendly or hostile; estrange; separate; change the ownership of ",
"supplying nourishment ",
"payments made regularly to an ex-spouse after divorce ",
"calm; pacify ",
"state without proof ",
"loyalty ",
"story, play, or picture in which characters are used as symbols; fable ",
"relieve (pain) ",
"repetition of beginning sound in poetry ",
"assign; set apart for a particular purpose ",
"mixture as of metals; something added that lowers in value or purity; V: mix; make less pure; lower in value or quality; spoil; CF. unalloyed: not in mixture with other maetals; pure; complete; unqualified; Ex. unalloyed happiness ",
"refer indirectly; N. allusion: indirect reference ",
"entice; attract; tempt ",
"pertaining to soil deposits left by running water ",
"money or goods given to the poor ",
"upward; high up in the air ",
"apart; not open in one's relationship with other people; reserved; ADV. ",
"noisy quarrel ",
"unselfishly generous; concerned for others; N. altiruism: unselfish concern for the welfare of others; unselfishness; OP. egoism ",
"combination of different things; mixture of metals (containing mercury) used for filling holes in teeth ",
"(of societies or groups) combine; unite in one body ",
"collect (gradually, in a very large amount) ",
"female warrior ",
"capable of using either hand with equal ease ",
"environment; atmosphere; Ex. restraurant with a pleasant ambience; ADJ. ambient: completely surrounding; Ex. ambient temperature ",
"unclear or doubtful in meaning; having more than one possible interpretation ",
"the state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes or opinions ",
"walking at an easy unhurried pace; V: walk slowly and aimlessly ",
"food of the gods ",
"able to walk ",
"act of lying in wait to attack by surprise; sudden attack made from a concealed position; Ex. lie in ambush; V. ",
"improve ",
"obedient; compliant; readily managed; responsive; willing to be led; answerable or accountable legally; responsible; able to be tested by; Ex. amenable to sensible suggestions; Ex. He is very amenable; Ex. amenable to the usual tests ",
"correct; change ; generally for the better ",
"convenient features that helps to make life pleasant; social courtesies ",
"agreeable; lovable; warmly friendly ",
"peaceful; politely friendly; not quarrelsome; Ex. amicable settlement ",
"wrong; faulty; Ex. something amiss; ADV. ",
"friendship; peaceful relationship as between nations ",
                            " loss of memory",
                            " pardon (allowed by government to political criminals)",
                            " in a state of rage; Ex. run amok",
                            " non-moral; having no understanding of right and wrong",
                            " moved by sexual love; loving; of sexual love; Ex. amorous advances",
                            " formless; lacking shape or definition",
                            " able to live both on land and in water;",
                            " oval building with tiers of seats; CF. arena",
                            " enough; abundant; spacious; large in size; Ex. ample opportunity/garden; N. amplitude: quality of being ample; abundance; largeness of space",
                            " increase in size or effect; expand; broaden or clarify by expanding; intensify; make stronger; Ex. amplify one's remarks with a graph",
                            " cut off part of body; prune (a limb)",
                            " charm; talisman; an object worn believed to protect against evil, bad luck",
                            " an error involving time in a story; something or someone misplaced in time; ADJ. anachronistic",
                            " condition of being unable to feel pain",
                            " causing insensitivity to pain;",
                            " comparable; similar",
                            " similarity; parallelism; comparing two similar things",
                            " person who seeks to overturn the established government; advocate of abolishing authority",
                            " absence of governing body; state of disorder",
                            " solemn curse; someone or something regarded as a curse; V. anathematize",
                            " family descent; ADJ. ancestral",
                            " secure or fasten firmly; be fixed in place; N. anchorage",
                            " serving as an aid or accessory; auxiliary; N.",
                            " short story of an amusing or interesting event",
                            " condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles; ADJ. anemic",
                            " substance that removes sensation with or without loss of consciousness; N. anesthesia",
                            " acute pain; extreme suffering",
                            " sharp-cornered; having an angle; not rounded (body); bony; lean; gaunt; stiff in manner",
                            " critical remark; V. animadvert: comment critically with disapproval",
                            " lively; spirited",
                            " active enmity",
                            " hostile feeling or intent; animosity; hostility; disposition",
                            " records arranged in yearly parts; history",
                            " reduce brittleness and improve toughness by heating and cooling (metal or glass)",
                            " attach; add to a large thing; take possession of; incorporate (territory) into a larger existing political unit (by force); N: building added to a large one",
                            " destroy",
                            " comment; make explanatory notes",
                            " yearly allowance",
                            " make void",
                            " drug that relieves pain or trouble;opiate; ADJ. Ex. anodyne statement",
                            " consecrate; put oil on (in a religious ceremony)",
                            " abnormal; irregular",
                            " irregularity",
                            " state of being nameless; anonymousness; ADJ. anonymous",
                            " hostility; active opposition; V. antagonize: cause to become an enemy; N. antagonist: person who is opposed to another; opponent; adversary; principal character in oppostion to the protagonist",
                            " precede",
                            " preceding events that influence what comes later; ancestors or early background",
                            " antiquated; extremely ancient",
                            " song of praise or patriotism; Ex. national anthem",
                            " book of literary selections by various authors; CF. omnibus",
                            " manlike; resembling a human being;",
                            " student of the history and science of humankind",
                            " having human form or characteristics",
                            " letdown in thought or emotion; something unexciting, ordinary, or disappointing coming after something important or exciting",
                            " remedy to counteract a poison or disease; Ex. antidote to the economic troubles",
                            " aversion; dislike or opposition",
                            " obsolete; old-fashioned; outdated",
                            " made in an earlier period and usu. valuable; N: object that was made in an earlier period and that is rare or valuable",
                            " quality of being very old; ancient times;",
                            " substance that prevents infection in a wound;",
                            " contrast; direct opposite of or to; ADJ. antithetic or antithetical",
                            " bony growth on the head of a deer",
                            " iron block used in hammering out metals",
                            " lack of caring; indifference; lack of concern or interest in important matters; Ex. He was sunk in apathy after his failure; ADJ. apathetic",
                            " imitate or mimic (a person's behavior or manner)",
                            " opening; hole; adjustable opening in a camera that limits the amount of light",
                            " tip; summit; climax; highest point",
                            " loss of speech due to injury or illness",
                            " pithy maxim or saying; ADJ. aphoristic",
                            " person who keeps bees",
                            " a place where bees are kept",
                            " bee-keeping",
                            " poise; composure in difficult situations; assurance; self-confidence",
                            " prophetic; pertaining to revelations especially of disaster; N. apocalypse",
                            " (of a story) widely believed but untrue",
                            " highest point; the point farthest from the earth; OP. perigee",
                            " having an aversion or lack of concern for political affairs",
                            " one who writes in defense of a cause or institution; N. apologia",
                            " stroke; loss of consciousness caused by too much blood in the brain",
                            " one who abandons his religious faith or political beliefs; N. apostasy",
                            " druggist; pharmacist",
                            " pithy, compact saying",
                            " elevation to godhood; an ideal example of something",
                            " dismay; shock deeply",
                            " evident; easily seen or understood; appearing as such; Ex. apparent improvement",
                            " ghost; phantom",
                            " pacify or soothe; Ex. appease a crying baby; N. appeasement",
                            " name; title",
                            " attach",
                            " diligent attention; diligence; V. apply oneself",
                            " appropriate; fitting",
                            " estimate value of; N. appraisal",
                            " be thankful for; increase in worth; be thoroughly conscious of; ADJ. appreciable: enough to be felt; Ex. appreciable difference",
                            " arrest (a criminal); dread; perceive; N. apprehension",
                            " fearful; discerning",
                            " inform",
                            " approval",
                            " acquire; take possession of for one's own use without permission; set aside for a particular purpose; allocate; CF. misappropriate",
                            " subordinate possessions; something added to a more important thing",
                            " with reference to; regarding; Ex. remarks apropos (of) the present situation;",
                            " fitness; talent",
                            " curved; hooked; of or like an eagle; Ex. aquiline nose",
                            " fit for growing crops; Ex. arable land",
                            " person with power to decide a matter in dispute; judge who is in a position ot make influential judgments; Ex. supreme arbiter of fashion in beachware",
                            " unreasonable or capricious; random; tyrannical; Ex. arbitrary ruler act as judge (at the request of both sides)",
                            " of or living in trees",
                            " place where different trees and shrubs are studied and exhibited",
                            " a covered passageway usually lined with shops",
                            " esoteric; secret; mysterious; known only to the initiated; Ex. arcane ritual; Ex. arcane process closed to the uninitiated listener",
                            " chief; first; Ex. archbishop",
                            " study of artifacts and relics of early mankind",
                            " antiquated; no longer used; belonging to the past;",
                            " prototype; primitive pattern",
                            " group of closely located islands",
                            " public records; place where public records are kept",
                            " heat; passion; zeal; ADJ. ardent",
                            " hard; strenuous; Ex. arduous work",
"slang; speech spoken by only a small group of people ",
"operatic solo; a song sung by one person in an opera or oratorio ",
"(of land) dry; barren; unproductive ",
"hereditary nobility; privileged class; government by nobility; N. aristocrat ",
"fleet of warships ",
"fragrant; having a sweet smell; N. aroma: strong pleasant smell ",
"charge in court; indict ",
"marshal; draw up in order; arrange in order; clothe splendidly; adorn; N: fine clothes; ordered group; Ex. in battle array ",
"being in debt; money that should have been paid; work that should have been done ",
"lacking rhythm or regularity; N. arrhythmia ",
"pride; haughtiness; ADJ. arrogant: unpleasantly self-important (with a strong confidence in one's own importance and a lack of respect for other people) ",
"gully; narrow channel formed by rainwater ",
"storage place for military equipment ",
"blood-vessel; CF. vein ",
"exhibiting art or skill; deceitful; cunning; CF. artifice ",
"effective; distinct; expressing ideas clearly; having clear sounds; having joints; Ex. articulate speech; V: express thoughts and feeling clearly; pronounce clearly; unite by joints ",
"object made by human beings, either hand-made or mass-produced ",
"deception; trickery ",
"a manually skilled worker ",
"without guile; open and honest ",
"controlling influence; position of controlling influence; CF. in the ascendant ",
"find out for certain; make certain ",
"practicing self-denial; avoiding physical pleasures and comforts; austere; Ex. ascetic life of Buddhist monks; N. asceticism ",
"refer; attribute; assign ",
"preventing infection; having a cleansing effect ",
"ash-colored; deadly pale ",
"stupid; Ex. asinine remarks ",
"with a sideways or indirect look (with disapproval or distruct); Ex. look askance at ",
"crookedly; slanted; at an angle ",
"sharpness; roughness; severity (of temper or weather); Ex. asperities of a Russian winter ",
"slanderous remark; Ex. cast aspersions on ",
"seeker after position or status ",
"seek to attain (position or status); long for; Ex. aspire to become president; Ex. aspire to/after the leadership ",
"assault ",
"analyze (to discover what materials are present); evaluate (soil or ore) ",
"agree; accept; N. assessment ",
"state strongly or positively; demand recognition of (rights, claims, etc.); make a claim to (by forceful action); Ex. assert one's independence ",
"diligent ",
"absorb; take (food) into the body and digest it; understand (knowledge) completely and be able to use properly; cause to become homogeneous (the people of a country or race in the wasy of behaving or thinking) ",
"make less severe; ease or lessen (pain); satisfy (hunger); soothe (anger) ",
"something taken for granted; the taking over or taking possession of; Ex. her assumption of power; V. assume ",
"firm statement that something is certainly true; promise or pledge; certainty; confidence in one's own ability; self-confidence; Ex. In spite of all his assurances, he did not come back; Ex. assurance of his loyalty; Ex. The teacher lacked assurance ",
"small planet ",
"eye defect which prevents proper focus; OP. stigmatism ",
"relating to the stars ",
"binding; causing contraction (stopping bleeding); harsh or severe; stringent; Ex. astringent criticism ",
"enormously large or extensive ",
"wise; shrewd; keen; seeing quickly something that is to one's advantage ",
"into parts; apart; V. sunder ",
"place of refuge or shelter; protection (religious or political) ",
"not identical on both sides of a dividing central line ",
"resemblance to remote ancestors rather than to parents; reversion to an earlier type; throwback; ADJ. atavistic ",
"denying the existence of God; N. atheism ",
                            " make amends for; pay for; Ex. atone for",
                            " brutal deed; ADJ. atrocious",
                            " wasting away; V: weaken and lose flesh and muscle (through lack of blood or lack of use)",
                            " alert and watchful; listening carefully; paying attention; considerate; thoughtful; politely helpful; Ex. attentive audience; Ex. He was attentive to the old lady; N. attentions: act of courtesy and consideration",
                            " make thin; weaken",
                            " testify; bear witness",
                            " clothe; N: clothing; array; apparel",
                            " essential quality; V: ascribe; explain",
                            " rubbing away by friction; gradual decrease in numbers or strength; reduction in the work force without firing employees; wearing away of opposition by means of harassment; Ex. a war of attrition",
                            " not normal; not typical",
                            " daring; bold; N. audacity",
                            " examination of accounts of a business; official examination;",
                            " increase; add to",
                            " omen; prophecy; sign of coming events; V. augur: predict; foretell; be a sign of (something in future)",
                            " impressive; majestic",
                            " sun's corona; halo; bright circle of light",
                            " pertaining to the aurora borealis; CF. aurora australis",
                            " favoring success; giving signs of future success; Cf. auspices",
                            " forbiddingly stern; ascetic; without comfort or enjoyment; severely simple and unornamented; Ex. a monk's austere life; Ex. austere grandeur of the cathedral; N. austerity",
                            " prove genuine",
                            " subordinating the individual to the state; completely dominating another's will; Ex. authoritarian regime/father",
                            " having the weight of authority; regarded as providing knowledge that can be trusted; reliable; peremptory and dictatorial; Ex. authoritative dictionary/manner; CF. definitive",
                            " having absolute unchecked power; dictatorial; N. autocrat, autocracy",
                            " mechanism that imitates actions of humans; machine that works by itself",
                            " self-governing; N. autonomy",
"examination of a dead body; postmortem; V. ",
"offering or providing help; additional or subsidiary; N: helper; assistant ",
"great mass of falling snow and ice ",
"group of artists whose work is based on the newest ideas and methods; CF. vanguard ",
"greediness for wealth ",
"take vengence for something or on behalf of someone; Ex. They avenged his death by burning the village; Ex. He swore to avenge his brother; Ex. They avenged themselves on their enemy. ",
"state confidently; declare as true ",
"reluctant; disinclined; not liking or opposed; Ex. averse to cats/doing the house work ",
"firm dislike ",
"prevent; avoid; turn away (eyes or thought); Ex. An accident was averted by his quick thinking; Ex. She averted her eyes from the terrible sight. ",
"enclosure for birds; large cage ",
"greedy; extremely eager for; Ex. avid learner; N. avidity ",
"secondary or minor occupation ",
"declare openly; N. avowal ",
"of or like an uncle ",
"solemn wonder; feeling of respect mixed with wonder and fear; V: fill with awe; ADJ. awesome ",
"terrible; very bad ",
"pointed tool used for piercing ",
"distorted; crooked; bent; Ex. Our plans have gone awry. ",
"self-evident truth requiring no proof ",
"sky blue  ",
"chatter idly or foolishly; make continuous sounds like water running gently over rounded stone; N. ",
"noisy party with a lot of drinking ",
"the ancient Roman festival in honor of Bacchus  ",
"drunken ",
"revert (to bad habits); N. reverter ",
"and forwards; Ex. reciprocate his invitation by inviting him; N. reciprocity: reciprocal relationship; mutual interchange of advantages between two groups; Ex. reciprocity in trading rights ",
"pester; annoy continually with demands; persuade by asking again and again; Ex. The children badgered me into taking them into the cinema; N: a kind of mountain animal ",
"teasing conversation; banter; joking talk ",
"frustrate; perplex ",
"harass; tease; torment; Ex. badger baiting; N: food or other lure used to catch fish or trap animals ",
"evil; malignant in intent or effect; deadly; having a malign influence; portending evil; ominous; threatening; Ex. baleful look ",
"stop short, as if faced with an obstacle, and refuse to continue; foil; stop or get in the way of; frustrate ",
"heavy substance used to add stability or weight; V. supply with ballast ",
"something that relieves pain; oily liquid with a pleasant smell from trees ",
"soft and mild (of air); fragrant ",
"hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality; clich'ed ",
"discuss lightly or glibly; discuss in a frivolous manner; exchange (words) heatedly; quarrel; Ex. bandy words with ",
"posion; cause of ruin; ADJ. baneful: harmful; poisonous ",
"heap; piled-up mass; embankment; lateral tilting (as of an aircraft in turning); V: pile up; protect with a bank; tilt in turning ",
"joking talk; good-naturedly ridiculing; N.V. banter ",
"railing in a courtroom; legal profession; vertical line dividing a staff into equal measures; Ex. prisoner at the bar; V: shut in or out with bars; forbid; exclude; CF. barrister ",
"sharp projection from fishhook, arrow, or other object; openly cutting remark ",
"poet ",
"shameless and noticeable; blatant; bold; unconcealed; having no covering on the face; Ex. barefaced lie ",
"agreement between two groups or people; something for sale at a price advantageous to the buyer; V: negotiate; trade; Ex. bargaining power ",
"highly ornate ",
                            " barrier laid down by artillery fire; overwhelming profusion; large number of questions or statements; Ex. a barrage of criticism",
                            " counselor-at-law or lawyer in the higher court of law; CF. bar",
                            " trader; V. barter: trade; exchange good for other goods rather than money",
                            " contemptible; morally bad; inferior in value or quality; Ex. base motives/conduct; Ex. base metal such as iron",
                            " luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth",
                            " illegitimate child",
                            " stronghold; something seen as a source of protection; Ex. the last bastion of male chauvinism",
                            " let down; lessen the force of; moderate; restrain; Ex. with bated breath; CF. abate",
                            " army unit made up of four or more companies",
                            " trinket; cheap jewel; trifle",
                            " indecent; obscene; about sex in a rude funny way; CF. bawd",
                            " deportment; connection",
                            " giving or showing bliss; blissful",
                            " blessedness; state of great happiness",
                            " dress with vulgar finery",
                            " wet thoroughly; ADJ. bedraggled: draggled",
                            " direct quick route",
                            " confuse thoroughly",
                            " father; become the father of; produce; give rise to",
                            " envy; give or allow unwillingly; grudge; Ex. We shouldn't begrudge him his success.",
                            " deceive; mislead or delude; cheat; pass time pleasantly; charm or attract; Ex. beguiling smile",
                            " huge creature; something of monstrous size or power",
                            " obligated; indebted; owing thanks; obliged or indebted from gratitude",
                            " be suited to; be incumbent upon; be right and necessary; Ex. It behooves one to do.",
                            " harp on; dwell on tediously; explain or go over excessively or to a ridiculous degree; assail verbally; beat severely; attack physically",
                            " delayed",
                            " besiege or attack (with an army); harass; beset",
"contradict; give a false impression; disguise; Ex. The poor sales belied our high hopes; Ex. Her smile belies her true feeling of displeasure. ",
"disparage; depreciate ",
"warlike ",
"quarrelsome ",
"lament; moan for; express sorrow or disapproval of ",
"confused; lost in thought; preoccupied ",
"blessing ",
"gift giver; patron; person who does good or who gives money for a good purpose ",
"kindly; doing good ",
"helpful; useful; advantageous ",
"person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will ",
"advantage; anything that brings helpl, advantage, or profit; money provided by the government to the people; fund-raising public entertainment; Ex. unemployment benefit; V: receive benefits; be beneficial to; give benefits ",
"generous; charitable; having a wish to do good ",
"kindly; favorable; not malignant (disease); Ex. benign tumor ",
"blessing ",
"determined; Ex. bent on advancing in the business; N: natural talent or inclination ",
"leave to someone by means of a will; hand down in his will; N. bequest ",
"scold strongly ",
"deprived of (someone beloved through death) ",
"state of being deprived of something valuable or beloved; state of being bereaved or bereft ",
"deprived of (something valuable); lacking ",
"mad with violent anger; frenzied; madly excited ",
"beg; plead with ",
"harass or trouble from all directions; hem in ",
"surround with armed forces; harass (with requests); annoy continually ",
"soil; defile; make dirty ",
"beastlike; brutal; inhuman; very cruel ",
"confer ",
"signify; indicate; be a sign of ",
"be unfaithful; reveal (unconsciously or unwillingly); Ex. Her trembling hands betray her anxiety. ",
"become engaged to marry ",
"large group; Ex. a bevy of starlets ",
"be cautious (of) ",
"cast a spell over; captivate completely ",
"two-chambered as a legislative body ",
"quarrel ",
"command; utter (a greeting); offer as a price; N: offer of a price; amount offered; earnest effort to gain something; Ex. bid for freedom ",
"every two years ",
"divided into two branches; forked ",
"one who is intolerant (in matters of religion or politics) ",
"stubborn intolerance ",
"suffering from indigestion; sick from having too much bile; irritable; easily irritated ",
"swindle; cheat ",
"large wave of water; a great swell or surge (of smoke); V: surge, swell, roll in billows ",
"swelling out in waves; surging ",
"sharply painful to the body or mind; Ex. biting wind/remarks ",
"having a sharp biting taste; 敬; causing sharp pain to the body or mind; filled with resentment, disappointment, or other unpleasant feelings; Ex. bitter wind/sorrow/tears ",
"temporary encampment; camp without tents; V. ",
"fantastic; violently contrasting; noticeably odd; strikingly unconventional ",
"vote against (an applicant); ostracize; N: negative vote ",
"bleach; whiten; make white or pale ",
"soothing or mild (food); agreeable; causing no trouble or offence ",
"flattery ",
"loud or harsh roar or screech; dazzling blaze of light ",
"bored with pleasure or dissipation; uninterested or bored ",
"irreverence; sacrilege; cursing; bad language about God or holy things; V. blasphem; ADJ. blasphemous; CF. sacrilege ",
"extremely (offensively) obvious; loudly offensive; Ex. blatant lie; N. blatancy ",
"cold or cheerless; frigid; unlikely to be favorable; depressing ",
"mar; spoil the beauty or perfection of; N: flaw or defect (that spoils perfection); Ex. blemishes in the crystal; CF. unblemished ",
"plant disease; V: infect with blight; ruin; destroy ",
"suffering from a disease; destroyed ",
"complete happiness; ADJ. blissful ",
"gay; joyous ",
"(unpleasantly) swollen or puffed as with water or air ",
"spot; blot; CF. blot+botch ",
"talkative boaster; braggart ",
"club; heavy-headed weapon; V. ",
"gloomy; depressed ",
"state of depression or melancholy; style of slow, mournful music (evolved from southern Black American songs) ",
"pretense (of strength); deception; high cliff; ADJ: rough but goodnatured ",
"error; stupid mistake ",
"having a dull edge; abrupt and frank in speech or manner; brusque; V: make or become blunt ",
"utter impulsively from nervousness or excitement ",
"become red in the face (from embarrassment or shame); become red or rosy; N. ",
"blow in heavy gusts; threaten emptily; bully; speak in a noisy or bullying manner; CF. breeze, gust, gale ",
"foreshadow; portend ",
"soft wet land; V: hinder or be hindered; Ex. bogged down in the mud ",
"counterfeit; not authentic; intentionally false; Ex. bogus interview ",
"unconventional (in an artistic way) ",
"violent; rough; noisy ",
"support; reinforce ",
"door bar; fastening pin or screw; length of fabric; large roll of cloth; V: dash or dart off; fasten (a | door); gobble down ",
"attack (as with missiles or bombs); V. bombard ",
"grandiloquent, pompous speech ",
"pompous; using inflated language ",
"fond of books and reading ",
"blessing; benefit; something very helpful ",
"rude, insensitive person ",
"rude; insensitive ",
"lift by pushing up from below; increase; raise; N: push upward; increase ",
"mismanage; blow ",
"clear beef (or meat) soup ",
"leap or spring; limit or confine; constitute the limit of; Ex. bounded by Canada; N: leap or jumping; boundary; ADJ: certain; having a duty to do something (legally or morally); confined by bonds; Ex. We are bound to be late; Ex. I am bound to ",
"generous; graciously generous; showing bounty ",
"middle class; selfishly materialistic; too interested in material possessions ",
"match; short period of great activity; Ex. wrestling bout; bout of drinking/flu ",
"cowlike; placid and dull; slow-thinking; calm ",
"expurgate; CF. Thomas Bowdler ",
"somewhat saline ",
"boast ",
"boasting ",
"boaster; bragger ",
"plait; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; N: braided segment (as of hair) ",
"trademark; mark burned on the hide of an animal; mark burned into the flesh of criminals; mark of disgrace; V: mark with a brand; give a lasting bad name; stigmatize; Ex. The press branded him a liar. ",
"wave around (a weapon); flourish ",
"swagger; assumed air of defiance; false show of bravery ",
"face courageously; Ex. brave the storm ",
"noisy quarrel ",
"human muscle; muscular strength; sturdiness ",
"muscular; having well-developed muscles ",
"insolent; without shame; bold; Ex. brazen lie; V: face with bold selfassurance or with unshamed confidence ",
"breaking of contract or duty; fissure or gap; opening; V. ",
"width; extent ",
"produce young; rear; bring up; produce (an undesirable condition); N: kind or sort of animal or plant ",
"conciseness; shortness of duration ",
"harness fitted about a horse's head (used to restrain); curb; check; V: put a bridle on; control or restrain; show anger ",
"uppermost edge of a cup; projecting rim (as on a hat); Ex. The glass was full to the brim; V: be full to the brim ",
"tawny or grayish with streaks or spots (of animals) ",
"edge (at the top of a cliff); Ex. on the brink of the Grand Canyon ",
"quick and active; marked by liveliness and vigor ",
"short stiff hair; V: (hair or fur) stand up stiffly ",
"rising like bristles; showing irritation ",
"hard but easily broken; difficult; unstable; Ex. brittle situation ",
"introduce as a subject; moot; open up ",
"rich, figured(patterned) fabric ",
"pamphlet ",
"cook by direct heat; N. ",
"platitude; chemical compound used to calm excitement ",
"ornamental clasp; pin ",
"sit on in order to hatch; think deeply or worry anxiously; N: the young of certain animals; group of young birds hatched at one time ",
"tolerate; endure; Ex. brook no interference; N: small stream ",
"bully; intimidate ",
"graze; feed on growing grass; skim or glance at casually ",
"injure without breaking the skin; N. ",
"main impact or shock (of an attack or blow); Ex. brunt of the argument ",
"blunt; abrupt; curt; not wanting to waste time being nice ",
"pirate ",
"rustic; pastoral ",
"strike forcefully; slap; batter; knock out; N: table with food set out for people to server themselves; meal at which people help themselves to food that's been set ",
"stupid person; clown ",
"clowning ",
"bugbear; object of baseless terror ",
"protruding part; swelling of a surface; Ex. The apple made a bulge in his pocket; V: swell outward; protrude ",
"size or volume (esp. when very large); main part; Ex. The bulk of the work has already been done; ADJ. bulky: having great size ",
"gold and silver in the form of bars ",
"one who is habitually cruel to weaker people; V. ",
"strong wall built for defense; earthwork or other strong defense; person who defends ",
"hit or knock against with force; N. ",
"mismanage; blunder; botch; blow; spoil by clumsy behavior ",
"able to float; cheerful and optimistic; N. buoyancy; Ex. buoyancy of wood/water/American market ",
"overregulated administrative system marked by red tape; ADJ. bureaucratic ",
"grow rapidly; grow forth; send out buds; Ex. burgeoning computer industry; CF. bludgeon ",
"give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly ",
"make shiny by rubbing; polish ",
"piece of sculpture showing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest; V: break up; arrest; Ex. crimebuster ",
"support; prop up; N. stationary structure to support wall; Ex. flying buttress ",
"full-bosomed; plump; jolly",
"small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests",
"hiding place; V.",
"discordant; inharmonious; N. cacophony: unpleasant mixture of loud sounds ",
"corpse; dead human body ",
"like a corpse; pale ",
"rhythmic rise and fall (of words or sounds); beat; regular beat of sound; rhythm ",
"student at a military school ",
"persuade by praise or false promise; coax; wheedle ",
"disaster; misery ",
"deliberately planned; likely ",
"large kettle ",
"ability; quality; diameter of the inside of a round cylinder; Ex. work of very high caliber ",
"beautiful writing; excellent penmanship ",
"hardened; unfeeling; without sympathy for the sufferings of others; unkind ",
"youthful; immature; inexperienced ",
"area of thick hard skin ",
"heat-producing; N. calorie ",
"malicious misrepresentation; slander ",
"good-fellowship; CF. comrade ",
"shell or jewel carved in relief; star's special appearance in a minor role in a film ",
"group sharing a common cause or opinion ",
"unfounded false rumor; exaggerated false report ",
"frankness; open honesty; ADJ. candid ",
"related to dogs; doglike ",
"any ulcerous sore; ulcer; any evil; CF. cancer ",
"shrewd in money matters; thrifty ",
"insincere speech or expression of piety; jargon of thieves; special words used by a particular group of people ",
"ill-humored; irritable ",
"story set to music to be sung by a chorus (shorter than an oratorio) ",
"slow gallop; V. CF. trot",
                            " division of a long poem",
                            " determine or seek opinions, votes, etc.; go through (a region) to solicit votes or orders; conduct a survey;",
                            " spacious",
                            " mental or physical ability; role; position or duty; ability to accommodate; Ex. in my capacity as president",
                            " having a very fine bore; resembling a hair; fine and slender; Ex. capillary attraction; N: very fine hairlike tube; CF. capillarity",
                            " surrender; give up all resistance",
                            " whim; sudden change of mind without any real cause",
                            " unpredictable; fickle",
                            " (of a boat) turn over",
                            " title; chapter heading; text under illustration",
                            " faultfinding; too critical",
                            " glass water bottle; decanter",
                            " shell covering the back (of a turtle, tortoise, crab, etc.)",
                            " unit of weight for precious stones; measure of the purity of gold",
                            " causing cancer; N. carcinogen",
                            " chief; most important; N: priest; cardinal number: number that shows quantity rather than order",
                            " doctor specializing in ailments of the heart",
                            " lurch; sway from side to side; move with irregular swinging movement; stagger",
                            " rush wildly; go at full speed",
                            " free from worries; having no problems",
                            " distortion; burlesque",
                            " a set of bells (often in a tower) capable of being played",
                            " destruction of life; slaughter; killing of large numbers of people or animals",
                            " fleshly; sensual; concerning the desires of the body",
                            " meat-eating; N. carnivore; CF. herbivore",
                            " drunken revel; V. carouse",
                            " petty criticism; fault-finding; fretful complaining; quibble",
                            " rotting flesh of a dead body; CF. vulture",
                            " map-maker",
                            " small waterfall",
                            " one of the hereditary classes in Hindu society; social stratification; prestige",
                            " punishment; severe criticism or disapproval",
                            " remove the sex organs (of a male animal or person)",
                            " happening by chance; irregular; occasional; informal; showing or feeling little interest; Ex. casual reader/labor/remark",
                            " serious or fatal accident; person killed or wounded in an accident or battle",
                            " deluge; upheaval; earthquake; violent and sudden event or change",
                            " agent which brings about a chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged; CF. catalysis",
                            " slingshot; hurling machine; V: fire from catapult",
                            " great waterfall; eye abnormality (causing a gradual loss of eyesight)",
                            " calamity ; disaster",
                            " shout of disapproval or displeasure (made at the theater or a sports match); boo;",
                            " book for religious instruction in question-and-answer form; religious instruction by question and answer; V. catechize",
                            " without exceptions; made without any doubt in mind; unqualified; absolute",
                            " provide food and drink (for); cater to: try to satisfy (desires of a bad kind)",
                            " purging or cleansing of any passage of the body; purging and weakening of strong emotions as a result of experiencing a dramatic work of art",
                            " purgative; medicine that causes the bowels to empty;",
                            " (of likings and interests) universal; general; broad; including many different parts; wide-ranging liberal; Ex. catholic opinions/tastes",
                            " private meeting of a group of people in a political party to select officers or determine policy; CF. the Caucus club of Boston",
                            "make watertight (by blocking up cracks as in a ship)",
                            " implying a cause-and-effect relationship; N. causality",
                            " burning; corrosive; able to burn by chemical action; sarcastically biting; (of remarks) intended to hurt; bitter; harmful; OP. harmless",
                            " burn (a wound or snakebite, etc.) with hot iron or caustic substance to stop bleeding and prevent infection",
                            " procession of riders or horse-drawn carriages; parade; CF. cavalry",
                            " casual and offhand; arrogant; N: knight",
                            " quibble; make frivolous objections; find fault unnecessarily",
                            " yield (title or territory) to (esp. after losing a war); surrender formally; N. cession",
                            " speed; rapidity",
                            " heavenly",
                            " abstaining from sexual intercourse; unmarried; N. celibacy",
                            " place for burying the dead",
                            " (in ancient Rome) overseer of morals (also taking the census); person who eliminates inappropriate matter;",
                            " severely critical",
                            " blame; criticize; express strong disapproval; N: severe criticism; strong disapproval",
                            " mythical figure, half man and half horse",
                            " denoting a widely used temperature scale (basically same as Celsius)",
                            " radiating; departing from the center",
                            " machine that separates substances by whirling them",
                            " tending toward the center",
                            " Roman army officer (commanding a company of about 100 soldiers)",
                            " pertaining to the brain or intellect; intellectual rather than emotional; CF. cerebrum",
                            " thought; working of the brain",
                            " marked by formality; extremely formal and polite; CF. ceremony: conventional social courtesy",
                            " certainty",
"stoppage ",
"yielding to another; ceding ",
"warm by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; N. ",
"worthless products of an endeavor; husk(outer seed cover) separated from grain; Ex. separate the wheat from the chaff ",
"bantering; joking ",
"annoyance and disappointment; vexation (caused by humiliation or injured pride) ",
"goblet; consecrated cup ",
"lizard that changes color in different situations ",
"support militantly; fight for; N: person who fights for or supports strongly (a principle, movement, person, etc.) ",
"position of champion; defense or support; competition held to determine a champion ",
"legal official of high rank; CF. chancellery(chancellory): position of a chancellor ",
"tune(melody) in which a number of words are sung on the same note; V: sing (a chant); utter (a slogan) in the manner of a chant ",
"in utter disorder ",
"small church (in a prison, college, or hospital) ",
"older person who accompanies and supervises a young unmarried woman ",
"clergyman attached to a chapel ",
"make or become black by burning; reduce or be reduced to carbon or charcoal(black substance made by burning wood) by incomplete combustion ",
"divine gift; great popular charm or appeal; magnetism ",
"quack; pretender to knowledge (esp. in medicine) ",
"quality of pleasing; amulet; action or formula thought to have magical power; spell; V: attract; cast a spell on; bewitch ",
"cautious; unwilling to take risks; sparing or restrained about giving; OP. bold ",
"ornament a metal surface by indenting; follow rapidly to catch ",
"abyss; very deep crack ",
"framework and working parts of an automobile; framework to which components are attached ",
"morally pure; virginal; abstaining from illicit sexual acts; modest; simple (of a style of writing); not highly decorated; austere ",
"discipline; punish in order to correct; CF. castigate ",
"punish as by beating; criticize severely ",
"blindly devoted patriot; zealous adherent of a group, cause, or sex; ADJ. chauvinistic; CF. chauvinism; Nicolas Chauvin ",
"stop motion; curb or restrain ",
"marked by great changes in fortune; with many changes of fortuene; CF. checked: having a pattern of squares ",
"angelic; innocent-looking; N. cherub; CF. seraph: winged angel of the highest order ",
"trickery; deception ",
"scold; rebuke (someone who has done wrong) ",
"fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; N. chimera: unreal fancy; fire-breathing female creature ",
"lose a small piece from the surface or edge; N: small piece broken off something; CF. French fry; Potato chip/crisp ",
"swindle or cheat; N: wedgelike tool for cutting ",
"courteous; faithful; brave; N. chivalry ",
"delicate; of very fine quality group of people who sing together (esp. during religious services); place for choir ",
"hot-tempered; bad-tempered; irritable; easily angered; CF. cholera ",
"daily domestic task (such as cleaning, cooking, and shopping); unpleasant task ",
"art of representing dances in written symbols; arrangement of dances ",
"chuckle with delight; N. ",
"phrase repeated throughout a song or poem ",
"long established as a disease ",
"report; record (in chronological order) ",
"laugh quietly ",
"boorish; rude; N. churl: boor; yahoo ",
"having minute hairs; CF. cilium; CF. cilia: eyelash ",
"nonentity; worthless person or thing; zero; secret code; V. ",
"small ring; band of gold, silver, jewel, etc. (worn on the head, arms, or neck as decoration) ",
"closed circular line around an area; circumference; regularly repeated journey from place to place ",
"roundabout ",
"indirect or roundabout [removed]by using an uncecessarily large number of words esp. when trying to avoid answering a difficult question directly) ",
"limit; confine; draw a line around ",
"prudent; cautious; acting after careful thought ",
"outwit; defeat by behaving more cleverly; outsmart; baffle; avoid; get around ",
"reservoir or water tank ",
"fortress ",
"quote; commend; Ex. cited for bravery in an official record ",
"having to do with citizens; not military or religious; courteous and polite; Ex. married in a civil ceremony; Ex. civil strife/disorder/law; N. civility; CF. civic ",
"having foresight; fortuneteller; N. clairvoyance ",
"climb by crawling with difficulties; scramble ",
"loud continous noise; continuous demand or complaint made by a large number of people; V: make a clamor; express (a demand) continually and loudly; ADJ. clamorous ",
"secret ",
"loud resounding noise; sound of repeated clanging ",
"strike the palms of the hands together with a sudden explosive sound; come together suddenly with a sharp sound; put or send promptly; Ex. clap the thief in jail; N: clapping; loud or explosive sound; CF. applause ",
"striker (tongue) of a bell ",
"shrill, trumpetlike sound; kind of trumpet used in former times ",
"hold firmly within arms ",
"fear of being locked in ",
"collarbone ",
"split or sever; cling to; remain faithful to; N. cleavage; ADJ. cloven ",
"N: split ",
"disposition to be lenient in deciding punishments; mildness as of the weather; ADJ. clement ",
"phrase dulled in meaning by repetition; platitude; ADJ. clich'ed ",
"body of customers ",
"relating to the highest point; N. climax; CF. climatic ",
"climate ",
"cut off with shears; fasten; N: something clipped off (as a short extract from film); clasp or fastener ",
"sailing vessel built for great speed ",
"small exclusive group of people ",
"monastery or convent ",
"half-solid lump formed from a liquid (or blood); V. ",
"great influence (especially political or social); hard blow with fist ",
"act stupidly; play the fool; N. ",
"distasteful (because excessive); excessively sweet or sentimental; V. cloy: become unpleasant through too much sweetness or excess ",
"congeal; thicken; clot; N. coagulant ",
"combine; fuse; N. coalescence ",
"partnership; league; union of separate political parties ",
"persuade by flattery ",
"concluding section of a musical or literary composition ",
"treat gently; indulge excessively; pamper; mollycoddle; baby; cook in water just below boiling point; Ex. coddled eggs ",
"supplement to the body of a will; later addition to a will ",
"arrange (laws or rules) as a code; classify; N. code: system of words used instead of ordinary writing; collection of laws, rules, established social customs ",
"use of force to get someone to object; compelling; V. coerce ",
"living at the same time as; existing during the same period of time; contemporary; of the same age ",
"tooth projecting from a wheel ",
"convincing ",
"think over; ponder ",
"having a common origin; related linguistically; allied by blood; similar or akin in nature; Ex. cognate languages; N. ",
"having to do with knowing or perceiving related to the mental processes; N. cognition: the mental process of knowing ",
"knowledge; ADJ. cognizant; having knowledge; aware ",
"live together ",
"stick together ",
"tendency to keep together ",
"group of people who share some common quality; armed band; a group of between 300 and 600 soldiers under one commander (in the ancient Rome) ",
"hairstyle ",
"make coins; invent or fabricate (a word or phrase); N. coinage: word or phrase recently invented ",
"the chance occurrence, at the same time, of two or more seemingly connected events; V. coincide: happen at the same time; be in agreement; CF. coincident; CF. coincidental ",
"utensil with perforated bottom used for straining ",
"work together; cooperate treasonably with the enemy ",
"work of art put together from fragments ",
"examine and compare in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order (the sheets of a book before they are bound) ",
"security given for loan; ADJ: secondary; descended from the same person but through different sons or daughters ",
"a light meal; collating ",
"composed; calm; self-possessed ",
"pertaining to conversational or common speech; informal; N. colloquialism: colloquial expression ",
"informal discussion; conversation ",
"conspiring in a fraudulent scheme to cheat or deceive others; V. collude ",
"huge ",
"gigantic statue; person or thing of great size or importance ",
"deep prolonged unconsciousness caused by disease, poison, or a severe blow ",
"in a coma; extremely sleepy ",
"easily burned; N. CF. combustion ",
"retort; quick clever reply; return to former status ",
"attractive; agreeable; having a pleasing appearance ",
"something fit to be eaten ",
"deserts; well-deserved punishment or misfortune; rebuke ",
"courtesy; civility; Ex. comity of nations ",
"take (private property) for military use without needing permission or giving payment; draft for military purposes ",
"honor the memory of; serve as a memorial to; Ex. commemorate the 100th anniversary/those who died in the war ",
"remembering; honoring the memory of; Ex. commemorative stamp ",
"equal in extent; of the same size ",
"feel or express pity or sympathy for ",
"spacious and comfortable ",
"ordinary; N: something ordinary or common; trite remark ",
"nation governed by the people; republic; people of a nation ",
"held in common; public; of a group of people; of a commune ",
"small (often rural) community whose members share work and income; V: exchange thoughts or feelings; Ex. commune with nature ",
"agreement; contract; ADJ: tightly packed; firm; brief; concise; Ex. compact statement ",
"one of the parts into which an enclosed space is divided ",
"sympathy for the suffering of others; ADJ. compassionate ",
"harmonious; in harmony with; able to exist together ",
"overpowering; irresistible in effect; holding one's attention; that compels one to do something; Ex. a compelling adventure story; V. compel ",
"brief, comprehensive summary; ADJ. compendious ",
"making up for; repaying ",
"listing of information in tabular or book form; compiling ",
"assemble; gather; accumulate; make (a report or a book) from facts and information found in various places; Ex. compile a dictionary ",
"self-satisfaction; smugness; ADJ. complacent ",
"trying to please; obliging; willing to please others ",
"complete; consummate; make perfect; N. ",
"serving to complete something ",
"conformity in fulfilling requirements; readiness to yield; disposition to yield to others; V. comply ",
"readily acting in accordance with a rule, order, or the wishes or others; yielding; comforming to requirements ",
"participation; involvement (in a questionable act or a crime) ",
"element; ingredient ",
"bear one's self; behave; Ex. comport oneself; N. comportment ",
"mixture of decaying organic matter used as fertilizer; V: put or make compost ",
"mental calmness ",
"combine; produce by combining; increase; make worse by adding to or increasing; exacerbate; Ex. compound an error; ADJ: consisting of two or more parts; N: combination of two or more parts; area enclosed by a wall containing a group of buildings; ",
"include; understand ",
"broad; including a lot or everything; thorough; inclusive ",
"force into less space; squeeze; contract; put into fewer words; N: thick mass of cloth pressed to part of the body to stop bleeding or swelling, reduce fever, etc. ",
"include; consist of ",
"adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of; put into danger, disrepute, or a dishonorable position; Ex. compromise one's principle; N. ",
"compelling; strong desire that is difficult to control; irresistible impulse ",
"resulting from compulsion ",
"obligatory; that must be done ",
"remorse; strong uneasiness caused by guilt ",
"reckon; calculate ",
"link as in a chain ",
"hollow; curved inwards; OP. convex ",
"admit; acknowledge as being true (often reluctantly); yield; grant; Ex. concede a goal ",
"vanity or self-love; too high opinion of one's own value; extravagant metaphor (in poetry) ",
"having a common center ",
"beginning; forming of an idea; fertilization; V. conceive: form an idea in the mind; devise; become pregnant; CF. inception ",
"mutually agreed on; done together by agreement; Ex. concerted effort; CF. in concert: working together ",
"an act of yielding; conceding; something conceded; point, right, etc. given unwillingly; privilege of maintaining a business in a certain place; Ex. oil concessions in the North sea; CF. concessionaire ",
"reconciling; soothing; V. conciliate: reconcile; soothe; win the friendly feelings (by removing anger) ",
"brief and compact ",
"private secret meeting ",
"decisive; ending all debate ",
"prepare by mixing or combining; make up in concert; devise (something false) so as to deceive; Ex. concoct an elaborate excuse for being late; N. concoction ",
"that which accompanies; Ex. Deafnes is a frequent concommitant of old age; ADJ: existing or happening together with something else ",
"harmony; accord ",
"formal agreement ",
"agree; coincide; happen at the same time ",
"happening at the same time; in agreement ",
"(derog.) bestow courtesies with a superior air; descend to the level of one considered inferior ",
"adequate; (of punishment) severe and well deserved ",
"seasonings; spices ",
"express condolences; N. condolence: sympathy for someone who has experienced great sorrow ",
"overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse ",
"helpful; contributive; V. conduce; Ex. conduce to/towards ",
"aqueduct; passageway for fluids ",
"trusted friend (to whom one tells one's secret) ",
"tell in confidence (to a person one trusts); be confident about ",
"self-assurance; calm unworried feeling based on a strong belief in one's abilities; strong belief in the ability of a person or plan; trust or faith in a person or thing; something confided; secret; Ex. confidence in your ability; Ex. I'm telling yo ",
"spoken or written in secret; trusted with private matters; Ex. confidential secretary ",
"shut in an enclosed space; restrict; keep within limits; N. confinement ",
"seize; take possession of (private property) by official order (usu. as a punishment); commandeer ",
"great fire ",
"flowing together; the place where two rivers flow together; crowd; gathering together ",
"person who uncritically conforms to the customs of a group; OP. nonconformist: one who does not conform to accepted beliefs of norms ",
"harmony; agreement with established rules or customs; similarity; Ex. behave in conformity with; V. conform: be similar; act in agreement; comply; Ex. conform to the rule; CF. conformance ",
"confuse; puzzle ",
"freeze; coagulate ",
"pleasant; friendly; in agreement with one's tastes and nature; Ex. congenial weather ",
"existing at birth ",
"corporation made up of several different companies in diversified fields; mass of various material gathered together; rock consisting of small stones held together by clay; V. ",
"mass of material sticking together ",
"correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship; CF. congruity ",
"in agreement; harmonious; corresponding; coinciding exactly; CF. congruous ",
"pine tree (usu. evergreen); cone-bearing tree; ADJ. coniferous; CF. deciduous; CF. evergreen ",
"surmise; guess; V. ",
"pertaining to marriage ",
"cause to appear by magic; summon (a devil or a spirit) by magical power; practice magic (esp. by very quick movement of the hands); evoke; conjure up: bring into the mind; Ex. The magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat. ",
"pretense of ignorance of something wrong; assistance; permission to offend; V. connive: feign ignorance (of a wrong); cooperate secretly in an illegal action; conspire ",
"person competent to act as a judge of art, etc. (whose judgments are respected); a lover of an art ",
"suggested or implied meaning of an expression; V. connote ",
"pertaining to marriage or the matrimonial state ",
"having a common ancestor ",
"kinship; relationship by birth ",
"scrupulous; through and careful; Ex. conscientious worker ",
"draftee; person forced into military service; V. ",
"dedicate; sanctify; declare as sacred; Ex. consecrate one's life to helping the poor ",
"general agreement; opinion reached by a group ",
"self-important; significant; consequent; following as a result; Ex. consequential air; CF. subsequent ",
"school of the fine arts (especially music or drama); glassenclosed area; CF. conservancy ",
"send to a person or place for sale; deliver officially; entrust; put into the care of another; set apart (for a special purpose); N. consignment; CF. consignor, consignee ",
"absence of contradictions; uniformity; degree of thickness or firmness; Ex. consistency of thick cream; CF. viscous ",
"lessen sadness or disappointment; give comfort; allay the sorrow of; N. consolation ",
"unification; process of becoming firmer or stronger; V. consolidate: merge; strengthen ",
"harmony; agreement ",
"harmonious; in agreement; N. ",
"associate with; keep company; N: husband or wife (or a ruler) ",
"treacherous plot; secret plan against the law (by two or more people) ",
"take part in a conspiracy; (of events) work together; combine; Ex. Events conspired to produce great difficulties. ",
"great shock; dismay ",
"voters represented by an elected official; district so represented; group of supporters (or constituents) ",
"supporter; voter; member of a constituency; component ",
"constituting; system of laws; composition of something; physical makeup or structure of a person; Ex. men with strong constitutions ",
"restraint; compulsion; repression of feelings; reticence; V. constrain: hold back; restrain; compel; oblige; confine forcibly; imprison ",
"explain; interpret; Ex. construe her silence as meaning that she agreed; CF. misconstrue ",
"complete; V. ",
"infection (by contact); ADJ. contagious; CF. infectious: that can be passed by infection in the air ",
"pollute ",
"scorn; disdain; ADJ. contemptuous; CF. contemptible ",
"struggle; compete; assert earnestly; state strongly ",
"assertion; claim; thesis; struggling; competition ",
"quarrelsome; controversial; likely to cause arguments ",
"dispute; argue about the rightness of; compete for; try to win; Ex. contest the election results; Ex. contest a seat in Parliament; N. ",
"writings preceding and following the passage quoted; circumstance in which an event occurs ",
"adjacent to; touching upon ",
"self-restraint; sexual chastity; sexual abstinence; voluntary control over bladder and bowel functions; ADJ. continent ",
"dependent on something uncertain or in the future; conditional; happening by chance; accidental; N: a group of soldiers, ships to a larger force; CF. contingency: future event that may or may not occur; possibility; Ex. prepare for every contingency ",
"twistings; distortions; V. contort: twist violently out of shape; CF. contortionist ",
"illegal trade; smuggling; smuggled goods; ADJ. ",
"contradict; oppose; violate (a rule, law, or custom); N. contravention ",
"penitent; repentant; N. contrition ",
"something contrived; machine or apparatus; clever deceitful plan; scheme ",
"invent or fabricate in a clever way (by improvisation); manage; Ex. contrive to attract his attention ",
"unnatural and forced; artificial; not spontaneous; Ex. The ending was rather contrived. ",
"oppose with arguments; attempt to refute; contradict; ADJ. controversial; N. controversy ",
"stubborn and disobedient; resisting authority (esp. disobedient to an order made by a court) ",
"bruise ",
"riddle; difficult problem ",
"come together; assemble; call to meet; Ex. convene the council ",
"social or moral custom; established practice; formal meeting; international agreement ",
"ordinary; typical; not nuclear; Ex. conventional weapons ",
"approach; tend to meet; come together ",
"familiar with; having knowledge of ",
"opposite; ADJ. ",
"one who has adopted a different religion or opinion; V: change into another form; (persuade to) adopt a particular religion or belief ",
"curving outward ",
"vehicle; transfer; act of conveying; Ex. public conveyance ",
"judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief ",
"pleasantly merry; festive; joyous; gay; characterized by joviality; jovial ",
"call together; Ex. convoke Parliament; N. convocation ",
"coiled around; twisted; involved; complicated; intricate; complex; N. convolution: twist; one of the convex folds of the surface of the brain ",
"violent uncontrollable shaking movement (caused by illness); V. convulse; ADJ. convulsive ",
"plentiful ",
"flirt; flirtatious woman; woman who tries to attract the admiration of men without sincere feelings; V. ",
"warmly friendly; gracious; heartfelt; Ex. cordial welcome ",
"extended line of men or fortifications to prevent access or egress; V. ",
"projecting molding on building (usually above columns or pillars); ",
"horn (or horn-shaped container) overflowing with fruit and grain; symbol of abundance; horn of plenty ",
"natural consequence (which naturally follows from something else)",

"public official who investigates any death thought to be of other than natural causes ",
"bodily (rather than spiritual); of a bodily form; material; tangible ",
"very fat; N. corpulence ",
"collection (of writings or information); Ex. the corpus of Shakespear's works; Cf. corpse ",
"red or white cell in the blood ",
"either of the correlated things; V. ",
"mutual relationship ",
"confirm; support; strengthen ",
"destroy or wear away gradually by chemical action (over a long period) ",
"eating away by chemicals or disease; (of language) fierce ",
"wrinkled; ridged ",
"pertaining to the universe; vast ",
"group that meets socially; select circle; close group of people with shared interests ",
"approve; support; tolerate; Ex. countenance his rude behavior; N: face; appearance ",
"cancel; revoke (an order) ",
"thing that completes another; things very much alike; thing that has the same purpose in a different system ",
"highly successful action or sudden attack; coup(s) d''etat; CF. coup de gr^ace: deathblow or shot which kills ",
"join; unite; OP. uncouple ",
"messenger ",
"attempt to gain; seek; woo; risk; behave so as to invite; attempt to gain the favor of by attention; Ex. court disaster ",
"binding agreement between two groups or people; compact; V: enter into a covenant; promise ",
"secret; hidden; implied; OP. overt ",
"avaricious; desirous of (someone else's possessions); V. covet: desire eagerly (someone else's possessions) ",
"terrorize; intimidate ",
"shrink quivering as from fear; cringe ",
"shy (flirtatiously); showing a (pretended) lack of selfconfidence; modest; coquettish; CF. job offer ",
"cheat; hoodwink; swindle ",
"sour; bad-tempered; peevish; difficult to read as handwriting ",
"skill (esp. with one's hands); skill in deceiving people; guile; ADJ. crafty: cleverly deceitful; cunning ",
"very unrefined; grossly insensible; crude and undiscriminating; Ex. crass behavior ",
"desire; want intensely ",
"cowardly ",
"belief ",
"evidence concerning one's authority; written proof of a person's position; Ex. The new ambassador presented his credentials to the court. ",
"creed ",
"belief on slight evidence; gullibility; naivet'e; ADJ. credulous ",
"system of religious or ethical belief ",
"move with body close to the ground; move stealthily or slowly; N. ",
"incinerate (a corpse); N. crematory, crematorium ",
"increase in the volume or intensity as in a musical passage; climax; CF. crescent ",
"top (as of a hill or wave); showy feathers on the head of a bird ",
"dejected; dispirited ",
"crack; fissure ",
"shrink back as if in fear; cower ",
"wrinkle ",
"standards used in judging; CF. criterion ",
"make (a piece of needlework) by looping thread with a hooked needle; N. CF. crotchet ",
"hag; ugly old woman ",
"bad-tempered; showing ill-humor; angry ",
"hybridize; N: hybrid; CF. interbreed; CF. inbreed ",
"(of someone old) eccentric; odd; whimsical; bad-tempered; N. crotchet: odd or whimsical notion ",
"hard outer covering (as of earth or snow) ",
"essential or main point; Ex. the crux of the problem; ADJ. crucial: of deciding importance ",
"secret recess or vault usually used for burial; underground room (under a church) ",
"mysterious; hidden; secret ",
"small chamber used for sleeping or work ",
"word or signal (as in a play to prompt another actor's speech or entrance); reminder or hint; V: give a cue to ",
"style of cooking; Ex. French cuisine ",
"relating to cooking or kitchen ",
"pick out from others (to kill the weakest members); reject; select; collect (information); N. ",
"highest point; climax; V. culminate in: reach the highest point in; end in; Ex. a series of minor clashes culminating in war ",
"deserving blame; blameworthy ",
"one guilty of a crime ",
"artificial channel for water; drain crossing under a road ",
"heavy and awkward to carry or wear; burdensome; Ex. cumbersome parcel/uniform ",
"growing by addition; accumulative ",
"clever in deceiving; sly; N: cleverness in deceiving; deceit ",
"greed (for wealth); CF. cupid; CF. Cupid ",
"superintendent; manager (in charge of a museum or a library) ",
"chain or strap used with a bit to restrain a horse; something that checks; V: check; restrain ",
"regulation requiring all people to leave the streets at stated times; signal (as a bell) announcing the hour of a curfew ",
"churlish, miserly individual; bad-tempered old person ",
"(of writing) flowing; running; having the successive letters joined ",
"casual; hastily done with little attention to detail ",
"shorten; reduce ",
"skeptical or distrustful of human motives; N. cynicism; CF. cynic: person who believes all people are motivated by selfishness ",
"object of general attention; person or thing that is a center of attention; CF. Ursa Minor ",
"work at in a nonserious fashion; splash around; move noisily in a liquid ",
"delicate; delicately beautiful; fastidious; not easy to please; Ex. dainty movement/dress ",
"raised platform for speakers or other important people ",
"trifle with; toy with; treat without the necessary seriousness; procrastinate; waste time ",
"condemn; criticize severely; condemn to everlasting punishment; doom; bring to ruin; N. damnation ",
"damp; unpleasantly wet ",
"neat and trim (in appearance); (of small men) neat in appearance and quick in movements; neat; spry ",
"spotted ",
"move or throw suddenly and quickly ",
"smear (as with paint); cover with something sticky; Ex. daub one's clothes with mud/paint; N: small bit of sticky substance; Ex. a daub of paint ",
"intimidate; frighten; discourage; dishearten ",
"bold; fearless ",
"loiter; hang around; waste time doing nothing ",
"stun as with a blow or shock; bemuse; benumb; N. ",
"make blind with a sudden intense light; amaze; fill with wonder ",
"standstill resulting from the opposition of two unrelenting forces; stalemate ",
"wooden; impassive; with no show of feeling; with an expressionless face ",
"scarcity ",
"sudden disastrous downfall or defeat; complete disaster ",
"bar; forbid; exclude; Ex. debarred from jury services ",
"degrade; reduce in quality or value; degenerate; lower in esteem; disgrace; N. debasement ",
"corrupt morally; seduce from virtue; N. debauchery: wild behavior (with sex and alcohol) ",
"weaken (esp. through heat, hunger, illness); enfeeble ",
"(of men) friendly, charming, and fashionably dressed; aiming to please; CF. of good disposition ",
"rubble; wreckage; scattered remains of something broken or destroyed ",
"expose as false, exaggerated, worthless, etc.; ridicule ",
"d’ebut; first public appearance; formal presentation of a young woman to society ",
"young woman making formal entrance into society ",
"decay; fall to a lower level (of morality, civilization, or art); ADJ. decadent ",
"pour off gently (wine or liquid) ",
"behead ",
"slow down ",
"falling off at a specific season or stage of growth as of leaves; Ex. deciduous tree/teeth ",
"kill (usually one out of ten or every tenth man); destroy or kill a large part of ",
"decode; CF. indecipherable ",
"downward slope ",
"(of a dress) having a low-cut neckline; CF. d'ecolletage: low neckline (on a dress) ",
"decay; V. decompose: decay; break and separate into simple parts ",
"proper (in behavior, conduct, or appearance) ",
"propriety; orderliness and good taste in manners; appropriateness of behavior or conduct ",
"lure or bait; V. ",
"authoritative order; edict; judgment of a court of law; V: order or judge by decree ",
"weak and in bad condition from old age or hard use; Ex. decrepit old chair/man ",
"state of collapse or weakness caused by illness or old age ",
"express strong disapproval of; condemn openly (something dangerous to the public); disparage; Ex. decry the violence of modern films ",
"derived by reasoning; V. deduce: infer; derive by reasoning ",
"mar; disfigure ",
"embezzle ",
"harm someone's reputation; malign; speak evil of; slander; N. defamation; ADJ. defamatory ",
"failure to act; failure to perform a task or be present; V. ",
"resigned to defeat or failure; accepting defeat or failure as a natural outcome; N. CF. defeatism ",
"shortcoming; V: desert (in order to join the opposite one) ",
"desertion ",
"give in respectfully; submit; delay till later; exempt temporarily; N. deferment; CF. show respect, comply with, courteous ",
"courteous regard for another's wish; courteous yielding to another's wish or opinion (showing respect); ADJ. deferential; OP. effrontery ",
"refusal to yield; resistance; V. defy; ADJ. defiant ",
"pollute; make filthy or dirty; corrupt morally; profane; desecrate; N: narrow passage or gorge through mountains ",
"most reliable; authorative and complete; that cannot be improved; conclusive; decisive; definite; Ex. definitive decision by the supreme court ",
"turn aside; turn away from a straight course ",
"destroy leaves; deprive of leaves (by the use of chemicals); N. defoliant ",
"provide for the payment of; undertake the payment of; pay ",
"strip a priest or minister of church authority; unfrock ",
"neat; skillful ",
"dead; no longer in use or existence ",
"become worse in quality; deteriorate; ADJ: having become worse; Ex. a degenerate species; N: depraved or corrupt person ",
"humiliation; debasement; degeneration; V. degrade: debase; disgrace; degenerate; reduce (something) in worth; demote (someone); reduce in rank ",
"remove water from; dry out ",
"turn into a god; make a god of; idolize; Ex. Kings were deified; CF. deity ",
"condescend; stoop ",
"erase; strike out ",
"harmful ",
"consider; ponder; ADJ: done on purpose; slow ",
"portray; depict; sketch; describe; N. delineation ",
"mental disorder marked by confusion; uncontrolled excitement; ADJ. delirious ",
"flat plain of mud or sand between branches of a river ",
"deceive ",
"flood; rush; V. ",
"false belief; hallucination; deluding; Ex. delusions of grandeur; Ex. under the delusion that ",
"deceptive; likely to delude; misleading; raising vain hopes; Ex. delusive promises ",
"dig; search deeply; investigate ",
"person who appeals to people's prejudice; false leader of people; CF. demagoguery ",
"disgrace; humiliate; debase in dignity; behave ",
"behavior; bearing ",
"insane ",
"fault; bad quality ",
"death ",
"related to population balance; N. demography: statistical study of human population ",
"destruction; V. demolish ",
"fiendish; cruel; N. demon: evil supernatural being; devil ",
"of or pertaining to the people ",
"object (because of doubts, scruples); raise an objection (showing qualms); hesitate; Ex. demur at the idea of working on Sunday ",
"(of a woman or child) grave; quiet and serious; coy; pretending to be demure ",
"blacken; defame ",
"(animal, person, or plant) inhabitant or resident of a particular place; regular visitor ",
"religious group; unit in a system; name or designation; CF. denominator: common trait or characteristic ",
"meaning; distinguishing by name; V. denote: indicate; refer to directly; mean; CF. connotation ",
"final outcome; final development of the plot of a play or other literary work; the end of a story when everything is explained ",
"condemn; criticize; N. denunciation ",
"portray ",
"reduce; exhaust ",
"regret; express sorrow and severe disapproval for something bad; Ex. deplore their violent behavior; ADJ. deplorable: very bad; deserving severe disapproval; Ex. deplorable living condition ",
"spread out (troops) in an extended though shallow battle line; distribute (persons or forces) systematically or strategically ",
"send out of the country; behave; N. deportation, deportment ",
"dethrone; remove from office; give a deposition; testify ",
"testimony under oath; deposing; dethroning ",
"extreme corruption; wickedness; V. deprave ",
"express disapproval of; deplore; protest against; belittle; ADJ. deprecatory ",
"lessen in value; belittle; represent as of little value ",
"plundering; destruction ",
"work or appoint as a deputy; N. deputy: person who has the power to take charge when the leading person is away ",
"insane ",
"negligent; (of someone) neglectful of duty; (of something) deserted by an owner; abandoned; N: abandoned property; homeless or vagrant person ",
"neglect of duty; abandonment ",
"ridicule; treat with contempt; make fun of; OP. respect ",
"ridicule; ADJ. derisive; CF. derisory ",
"deriving; origin or source of something; Ex. the derivation of the word ",
"unoriginal; obtained from another source; Ex. derivative prose style; N. ",
"one who studies the skin and its diseases ",
"expressing a low opinion; disparaging; V. derogate: detract; disparage ",
"catch sight of (something distant) ",
"profane; violate the sanctity of ",
"what someone deserves ",
"dry up ",
"make desolate; forsake; abandon and desert ",
"reckless, desperate outlaw ",
"having lost all hope; despairing; reckless and violent because of loss of hope or despair; undertaken as a last resort ",
"look on with scorn; regard as worthless or distasteful; ADJ. despicable: contemptible ",
"plunder; sack; Ex. despoil the village ",
"without hope and courage; depressed; gloomy; N. despondency: loss of hope with gloom; dejection ",
"tyrant; harsh, authoritarian ruler; CF. despotism ",
"extremely poor; lacking means of subsistence; utterly lacking; devoid; Ex. destitute of any experience ",
"aimless; haphazard; digressing at random ",
"emotionally removed; free from emotional involvement; calm and objective; physically separate; N. detachment; CF. attachment ",
"keep waiting; prevent from leaving or going; N. detention ",
"having a fixed order of procedure; precisely defined; invariable; fixed; conclusive; final ",
"resolve; firmness of purpose; measurement or calculation; decision ",
"something that discourages or deters ",
"explosion ",
"slandering; aspersion; detracting; CF. detractor ",
"harmful; damaging; N. detriment ",
"turn away from (a principle, norm); move away from an accepted standard; swerve; depart; diverge; N. deviation; Ex. deviation of the path of light by a prism ",
"roundabout; erratic; deviating from the straight course; not straightforward; not completely honest; Ex. devious route ",
"think up; invent; plan; bequeath; N: bequest ",
"empty; lacking ",
"deputize; pass or be passed to others (power, work, or property); Ex. devolve on/upon/to ",
"enthusiastic follower; enthusiast; Ex. devotee of Bach ",
"pious; deeply religious; sincere; earnest; Ex. my devout hope ",
"skillful; skill in using hands or mind; N. dexterity ",
"diabolic; devilish; fiendish ",
"crown ",
"relating to the art of debate; mutual or reciprocal; Ex. dialectical situation; N. dialectic: art of arriving at the truth by the exchange of logical arguments ",
"sheer; transparent ",
"bitter scolding or denunciation; invective; abuse ",
"division into two opposite parts; split; branching into two parts (especially contradictory ones) ",
"authoritative and weighty statement (made by a judge in court); saying; maxim; CF. obiter dictum: incidental, nonbinding remark (something said in passing) ",
"(of speech or writing) intended to teach a moral lesson; teaching; instructional; N. didacticism ",
"metal block used for shaping metal or plastic; device for stamping or impressing; mold; CF. dice ",
"shyness; lack of self-confidence; timidity; ADJ. diffident ",
"wordy; verbose; rambling; spread out (like a gas); V: spread out in all directions; disperse; N. diffusion; CF. suffuse ",
"person of high rank or position ",
"wandering away from the subject; V. digress ",
"falling to pieces; in a bad condition; ruined because of neglect; Ex. dilapidated old car/castle; N. dilapidation ",
"expand; dilate on/upon: speak or write at length on (a subject) ",
"delaying; tending to delay ",
"situation that requires a choice between equally unfavorable options; problem; choice of two unsatisfactory alternatives ",
"aimless follower of an art or a field of knowledge (not taking it seriously); amateur; dabbler; CF. delight ",
"steadiness of effort; persistent hard work ",
"make (a liquid) less concentrated; reduce in strength; Ex. dilute the influence of the president ",
"lessening; reduction in size; V. diminish ",
"continued loud noise; V: make a din; instill by wearying repetition ",
"small boat (often ship's boat) ",
"(of things and place) dirty and dull; Ex. dingy street/curtain ",
"means; effort; Ex. by dint of hard work ",
"life-size, three-dimensional scene from nature or history; threedimensional scene with modeled figures against a painted background ",
"warning of disaster; disastrous; (of needs and dangers) very great; urgent; Ex. dire prediction/need of food ",
"funeral song; slow mournful piece of music (sung over a dead person) ",
"correct a false impression; undeceive; free from a wrong belief ",
"disloyal; lacking loyality; V. disaffect: cause to lose affection or loyalty ",
"disapproval; condemnation ",
"state of disorder; a disorderly or untidy state; Ex. with her clothes in disarray ",
"denial; disclaiming; repudiating; disowning; V. disavow; CF. disclaim ",
"dissolve; disperse; (of a group) break up and separate; Ex. The club has disbanded. ",
"make (a lawyer) leave the bar or the legal profession ",
"pay out (as from a fund); N. disbursement; CF. purse ",
"distinguishable; perceivable; Ex. discernible improvement ",
"mentally quick and observant; having insight; perceptive; able to make good judgments; V. discern: perceive ",
"disown; renounce claim to; deny; CF. disclaimer ",
"reveal; N. disclosure ",
"discomposed; confused ",
"frustrate; put to rout; defeat; disconcert; embarrass; perturb ",
"disturb the composure of; confuse ",
"confuse; upset; embarrass; perturb ",
"hopelessly sad (at the loss of something) ",
"conflict; lack of harmony; dissonance (when musical notes are played) ",
"not harmonious; conflicting ",
"disregard; regard (a story or news) as unimportant; deduct from a cost ",
"serious speech, writing, or conversation; formal discussion (either written or spoken); conversation; V. ",
"defame; disgrace; destroy confidence in; disbelieve; N. CF. discreditable: causing discredit; shameful ",
"lack of consistency or agreement as between facts; difference; Ex. discrepancy between two descriptions ",
"separate; unconnected ",
"prudence; ability to adjust actions to circumstances; freedom of action or judgment; ADJ. discreet; CF. discretionary ",
"distinguish; make distinctions on the basis of preference ",
"able to see differences; discerning; prejudiced; N. discrimination ",
"(of a person or writing) digressing; rambling (without any clear plan) ",
"treat with scorn or contempt ",
"debark; go ashore (from a ship); unload cargo from a ship; CF. embark ",
"disfranchise; deprive of a civil right; OP. enfranchise ",
"uncouple; separate; disconnect; stop fighting; OP. engage ",
"mar the appearance of; spoil ",
"surrender something (stolen); eject; vomit; OP. gorge ",
"make discontented ",
"discourage ",
"untidy (of hair or clothing); V. dishevel ",
"disgrace; N. ADJ. dishonorable ",
"unwillingness ",
"not naive; not candid; sophisticated; worldly wise; OP. ingenuous ",
"dig up; unearth; OP. inter ",
"unprejudiced; free from bias and self-interest; objective ",
"disconnected; lacking coherence; V. disjoint: disconnect; disjoin ",
"act or state of separation; disunity; CF. disjunctive: expressing a choice between two ideas; CF. conjunction; CF. conjunctive ",
"remove (forcibly); force out of a position; Ex. dislodge the food caught in his throat; CF. lodge ",
"take apart; disassemble ",
"cut into small parts; cut (a body) apart limb from limb ",
"eliminate from consideration; no longer consider; put out of court without further hearing; reject; discharge from employment; direct to leave; ADJ. dismissive; N. dismissal ",
"belittle ",
"basically different; impossible to compare; unrelated ",
"difference; condition of inequality; OP. parity ",
"calm; impartial; not influenced by personal feelings ",
"speediness; prompt execution; message sent with all due speed; V: send to a specified destination; finish promptly; kill ",
"scatter; drive away; cause to vanish ",
"distribute; prepare and give out (medicines); N. dispensation: dispensing; religious system; official exemption from an obligation or a rule ",
"scatter; Ex. disperse the cloud/crowd ",
"lacking in spirit ",
"amuse; Ex. disport oneself; CF. divert ",
"lack of proportion (between the parts); ADJ. disproportionate ",
"argumentative; fond of argument ",
"uneasiness; anxiety; V. disquiet: make anxious ",
"formal systematic inquiry; explanation of the results of a formal inquiry; long formal speech or written report ",
"analysis; cutting apart in order to examine ",
"disguise; hide the real nature of; pretend ",
"distribute; spread; scatter (like seeds) ",
"disagreement of opinions causing strife within a group ",
"disagree ",
"formal essay; treatise ",
"dissenting (with an opinion, a group, or a government); rebellious; N. ",
"pretend; conceal by feigning; dissemble ",
"squander; waste foolishly; scatter ",
"disintegration; reduction to a liquid form; looseness in morals; sensual indulgence; debauchery; ADJ. dissolute: lacking in moral restraint; leading an immoral life ",
"discord ",
"persuade not to do; discourage; N. dissuasion ",
"reserved or aloof; cold in manner; Ex. distant greeting; ADV. distantly ",
"expand; swell out ",
"refine (a liquid by evaporating and subsequent condensation); concentrate; separate the most important parts from; Ex. distill fresh water from sea water; CF. brew ",
"clearly different; clearly noticed ",
"honor; excellence; difference; contrast; discrimination; Ex. graduated with distinction; Ex. a writer of real distinction ",
"clearly different from others of the same kind ",
"twist out of shape; give a false account of; misrepresent; N. distortion ",
"take (one's attention) off something; upset emotionally; make anxious; ADJ. distracted ",
"absentminded; distracted ",
"upset; distracted by anxiety; very anxious and troubled almost to the point of madness; Ex. distraught with grief/worry ",
"daily; occurring during the daytime ",
"operatic singer; prima donna ",
"vary; go in different directions from the same point; ADJ. divergent: differing; deviating ",
"differing in some characteristics (from each other); various; N. diversity: | variety; dissimilitude; lack of resemblance ",
"act of turning aside; pastime; V. divert: turn aside from a course; distract; amuse ",
"strip (as of clothes); deprive (as of rights); dispossess; N. divestiture(divestment) ",
"perceive intuitively (by or as if by magic); foresee the future; foretell; dowse; ADJ. N. divination ",
"reveal ",
"obedient; easily managed; submissive ",
"program as for trial; book where such entries are made; list of things to be done; agenda; label fixed to a package listing contents or directions; V: describe in a docket ",
"unable to compromise about points of doctrine; dogmatic; unyielding; marked by inflexible attachment to a doctrine without regard to its practical difficulties ",
"teachings in general; particular principle (religious, legal, etc.) taught; dogma; tenet; ADJ. doctrinal ",
"provide written evidence (for a claim); record with documents; N. ",
"shaky; infirm from old age; V. dodder ",
"take off; OP. don ",
"determined; stubborn; stubbornly persevering; tenacious; Ex. Inspector Javert's dogged pursuit of Jean Valjean ",
"poor verse ",
"opinionated; holding stubbornly to one's opinion; arbitrary; doctrinal ",
"blues; listlessness(lack of spirit or energy); slack(inactive) period; period of stagnation; ocean area near the equator where ships cannot move because there is no wind; Ex. in the doldrums ",
"sorrowful; N. dolor ",
"slow-thinking stupid person; CF. dull ",
"home; V. ADJ. domiciled: having one's domicile; Ex. He is domiciled in Britain. ",
"exercising the most influence; high and easily seen; stronger than the other part of a system; not recessive ",
"control; rule; enjoy a commanding position in; overlook from a height;",
"rule over tyrannically ",
"put on; OP. doff ",
"condemnation to a severe penalty; ruin; fate (esp. a tragic or ruinous one); V. ",
"sleeping; temporarily inactive; lethargic; latent ",
"window projecting upright from roof; CF. sleeping room ",
"relating to the back of an animal; Ex. dorsal fin ",
"file of documents on a subject or person; file; CF. bundle of papers labeled on the back ",
"senility; feeblemindedness of old age; Ex. In one's dotage ",
"be excessively fond of; show signs of mental decline ",
"sullen; gloomy; stubborn ",
"plunge into water or liquid; dip; immerse; drench; wet throughly; extinguish; throw water over; dowse ",
"untidy (of a woman or clothes); slovenly; dressed in an unattractive way; shabby; CF. unattractive woman ",
"disheartened; dejected; sad; directed downward ",
"money or property brought by a bride to her husband at marriage ",
"use a divining rod to search for underground water or minerals ",
"sleep lightly; nap ",
"dull; lacking color; cheerless ; Ex. drab coat/life ",
"extremely severe; Ex. draconian punishment; CF. Draco: Athenian politician ",
"first rough form; conscription; draught; V: make a draft of; conscript ",
"prose or verse composition to be performed by actors; play; exciting and unusual situation ",
"strong; violent and severe; Ex. drastic changes/measures ",
"current of air (through a room or to a fire); act of pulling roads; act of swallowing liquid or amount of liquid swallowed at a time ",
"choosing of a lot or card ",
"sediment in a liquid; lees; worthless residue ",
"flow or fall in drops; let saliva flow out slowly from the mouth; move a ball; N. ",
"fall or let fall in drops; shed drops; N: action or sound of falling in drops; liquid that falls in drops ",
"nonsense; foolishness; V: talk nonsense ",
"queer and amusing ",
"talk dully; buzz or murmur like a bee; ",
"bend or hang downward; become weakened; Ex. His shoulders drooped with tiredness; N. ",
"waste matter; worthless impurities ",
"do drudgery; N: person who drudges ",
"hard unpleasant work; menial work ",
"questionable; (of something) causing doubt; (of someone) filled with doubt; N. dubiety ",
"malleable; pliable; (of metals) easily pulled into shape; flexible; (of someone) easily influenced or controlled ",
"sweet sounding; pleasing to the ear; melodious ",
"(of colors or surfaces) not bright; cloudy; overcast; boring; (of edge or sound) not sharp; not rapid; sluggish; slow in thinking and understanding; stupid; V. ",
"astonish (making dumb); ADJ. dumbfounded, dumfounded, dumbstruck ",
"imitation of a real object used as a substitute; effigy ",
"someone easily fooled or deceived; V: deceive ",
"double-dealing; hypocrisy; being dishonest and deceitful; ADJ. duplicitous ",
"length of time something lasts ",
"forcible restraint, especially unlawfully; coercion by threat; illegal coercion; Ex. a promise made under duress ",
"(of people or their behavior) respectful; obedient (filled with a sense of duty) ",
"shrink; reduce gradually ",
"energetic; vigorously active ",
"generator for producing electricity; energetic person ",
"abnormal; impaired ",
"inflammatory disorder of the lower intestinal tract ",
"word blindness; learning disorder marked by impairment of the ability to read ",
"suffering from indigestion; N. dyspepsia: indigestion; difficulty in digesting food ",
"set aside (money or time) for a particular purpose ",
"gain for the performance of service or labor; gain (something that one deserves); deserve ",
"of this earth; terrestrial; worldly; not divine; possible; Ex. no earthly reason ",
"unrefined; coarse; of earth; Ex. earthy remarks; OP. ethereal ",
"(of the tide) recede; lessen; diminish; N. OP. flow: rise of tide ",
"showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm; boiling; N. ebullience; N. ebullition: state of boiling ",
"irregular; odd; unconventional; whimsical; bizarre; not concentric ",
"oddity; idiosyncrasy ",
"ecclesiastical; pertaining to the church; N: minister; priest; cleric; clergyman ",
"selective; composed of elements drawn from disparate sources; selecting individual elements from a variety of sources; N. eclecticism ",
"darken; extinguish; outshine; surpass; cause an eclipse ",
"path of the sun and the planets ",
"person concerned with the interrelationship between living organisms and their environment; person concerned with the detrimental effects of human civilization on the environment; CF. ecology ",
"efficiency or conciseness in using something; thrifty management of resources ",
"ecological community together with its environment ",
"rapture; very strong feeling of joy and happiness; any overpowering emotion; ADJ. ecstatic: causing or experiencing ecstasy ",
"swirling current of water, air, etc.; V. ",
"decree (especially one issued by a sovereign); official command ",
"building (of imposing size) ",
"instruct; correct morally ",
"weird; causing fear because strange ",
"rub out; remove the surface of ",
"effectual; producing a strong response; striking; in operation; in effect; Ex. effective speech/photograph ",
"able to produce a desired effect; valid ",
"effect; produce; achieve; Ex. effectuate a reconciliation ",
"having womanly traits ",
"inner excitement or exuberance; showing high spirits; emitting bubbles forming inside; bubbling from fermentation or carbonation; ADJ. effervescent; V. effervesce ",
"having lost one's original power; barren; worn out; exhausted ",
"power to produce desired effect; ADJ. efficacious: effectual ",
"dummy; likeness of a person made of wood, paper, or stone; Ex. burn an effigy of the President ",
"noxious(harmful) smell ",
"rudeness without any sense of shame; shameless boldness; presumptousness; nerve; cheek ",
"shining brightly; brilliant ",
"pouring forth; unrestrained outpouring of feeling; V. effuse: pour out; ADJ. effusive: pouring forth; gushing ",
"one's opinion of oneself; self-esteem ",
"excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others; selfishness; ADJ. egoistic, egoistical ",
"tendency to speak or write of oneself excessively; conceit; self-importance ",
"egotistic; excessively self-centered(egocentric); self-important; conceited ",
"notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking ",
"exit; opening for going out; act of going out; OP. ingress ",
"exclamation; abrupt ejection (to discharge sperm); V. ejaculate ",
"work out carefully; add more detail or information; ADJ. ",
"addition of details; intricacy ",
"able to spring back into shape; quick to recover (as from disappointment); able to adapt to change; Ex. elastic plans; N: elastic material ",
"filled with excited joy and pride; overjoyed; in high spirits; joyful and proud; Ex. elated crowd; V. elate; N. elation ",
"poem or song expressing lamentation (for the dead); ADJ. elegiacal, elegiac ",
"elevated position; altitude; height; flat upright side of a building; angle made by pointing a gun; Ex. The elevation of her style is much admired; Ex. front elevation of the house ",
"draw out fact or information (by discussion or from someone) ",
"cure-all; panacea; something invigorating ",
"omission of words from a text; mark used to indicate an omission (when the meaning can be understood without them); PL. ellipses ",
"elliptic; oval; of an ellipse; containing an ellipsis; ambiguous either purposely or because key words have been left out ",
"run away secretly with the intention of getting married ",
"expressiveness; persuasive speech; ADJ. eloquent: movingly expressive; expressing ideas well so that the hearers can be influeneced ",
"explain; make clear; clarify; enlighten; CF. lucid ",
"evasive; not frank; baffling; hard to grasp, catch, or understand; V. elude: escape from; escape the understanding or grasp of; Ex. elude the hunter; Ex. His name eludes me. ",
"relating to paradise; blissful ",
"place or condition of bliss ",
"thin and wasted (from hunger or illness) ",
"issue forth; come out ",
"set free; liberate ",
"weaken; castrate ",
"ban on commerce or other activity ",
"commence; go on board a boat; begin a journey ",
"enclose; place in something; fix firmly in a surrounding mass ",
"adorn; ornament; enhance as a story (by adding fictitious details) ",
"taking for one's own use in violation of trust; stealing (of money placed in one's care) ",
"make bitter; fill with painful or bitter feelings; make sad and angry; Ex. He was embittered by many disappointments. ",
"ornament richly (a shield or flag); N. emblazonment ",
"give a bodily form to; incorporate; include ",
"produce a design in raised relief; decorate with a raised design ",
"hug; clasp with the arms; adopt or espouse; accept readily; encircle; include; Ex. embrace the cause/socialism; Ex. all-embracing; CF. brace; CF. bracelet ",
"decorate with needlework; ornament (a story) with fancy or fictitious details; embellish ",
"throw into confusion; involve in strife, dispute, or quarrel; entangle; CF. imbroglio ",
"undeveloped; rudimentary; N. embryo: organism in the early stage of development ",
"correct (usually a text); N. emendation: correction of errors; improvement ",
"substance causing vomiting; ADJ. ",
"rising above others; high; lofty; distinguished; Ex. eminent position ",
"agent (sent on a mission to represent another); messenger ",
"soothing or softening remedy (for the skin); ADJ. ",
"salary; payment for an office; compensation ",
"ability to identify with another's feelings, ideas, etc.; identification with and understanding of another's feelings; V. empathize; CF. sympathy ",
"based on experience ",
"imitate; rival; try to equal or excel (through imitation) ",
"make (a bill) into law ",
"in love; Ex. enamored of his own beauty; V. enamor: inspire with love ",
"encode; convert a message into code; put into cipher ",
"surround ",
"territory enclosed within an alien land ",
"praising; eulogistic; N. encomium: very high praise; eulogy ",
"surround; include; Ex. His activities encompass publishing and computers. ",
"gradual intrusion; Ex. I resent all these encroachments on my valuable time; V. encroach: take another's possessions or right gradually or stealthily; intrude; Ex. encroach on/upon ",
"burden; N. encumbrance ",
"make beloved; Ex. endear her to everyone; ADJ. dear: loved; cherished; high-priced ",
"fond word or act; expression of affection ",
"prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country; peculiar to a particular region or people; CF. pandemic ",
"approve; support; write one's signature on the back of; N. endorsement; CF. dorsal ",
"provide with some quality; endow ",
"lasting; surviving; V. endure: bear (pain or suffering) for a long time; remain alive (in spite of difficulties); last; survive ",
"invigorate; give energy to; make forceful and active ",
"weaken; take away energy from ",
"admit to the rights of citizenship (especially the right to vote); CF. franchise ",
"attract; employ; hire; pledge oneself; confront; fight; enter into confliction; interlock; lock together; participate; N. engagement: agreement to marry; arrangement to meet someone or to do something; battle ",
"employed; busy; betrothed; involved in conflict ",
"charming; attractive ",
"cause; produce; give rise to ",
"occupy fully; absorb ",
"surround and swallow up ",
"increase; make greater (as in value, reputation, or usefulness); improve ",
"puzzle; mystery; ADJ. enigmatic: obscure; puzzling ",
"command; order; forbid ",
"(cause to) join the armed forces; obtain (help, sympathy, or support) ",
"make lively or spirited; animate ",
"ill will; hatred; hostility ",
"boredom; listlessness and dissatisfaction resulting from lack of interest; CF. annoy ",
"hugeness (in a bad sense); excessive wickedness; Ex. enormity of the crime; ADJ. enormous ",
"please intensely; fill with rapture and delight ",
"settle comfortably; place comfortably (in a secure place) ",
"follow (as a result) ",
"make necessary; require; necessitate; involve; limit the inheritance of (property) to a specified succession of heirs; Ex. entail A on/upon B ",
"willingness to take new ventures; initiative; business organization; plan (that is difficult or daring); Ex. their latest enterprise to sail round the world in a small boat ",
"full of initiative; showing enterprise ",
"capture; enslave; captivate; hold the complete attention of (as if magic); hold spellbound ",
"lure; persuade to do (something wrong); attract; tempt ",
"real being ",
"study of insects ",
"group of attendants; retinue; CF. surround ",
"put under a spell(condition caused by magical power); carry away(fill with strong feeling) with emotion; put into a trance; fill with delight ",
"plead; ask earnestly ",
"entrance; a way in; right to enter; main dish of a meal; Ex. entree into the exclusive circle ",
"businessperson (who assumes the risk of a business venture); contractor; ADJ. entrepreneurial ",
"list; mention one by one ",
"announce; proclaim; utter or speak, especially distinctly; pronounce clearly; articulate; Ex. This theory was first enunciated by him. ",
"enclose; surround; N. environs: surrounding area (as of a city) ",
"long period of time; an age; longest division of geologic time containing two or more eras ",
"ornament worn on the shoulder (of a uniform, etc.) ",
"short-lived; fleeting ",
"long heroic poem, novel, or similar work of art (celebrating the feats of a hero); ADJ: (of stories or events) resembling an epic; grand ",
"connoisseur of food and drink; gourmet; ADJ. epicurean; CF. Epicurus ",
"believing that pleasure is good and suffering is bad and should be avoided; N. ",
"witty thought or saying, usually short ",
"short speech at conclusion of dramatic work ",
"(of a story or play) loosely connected; made up of separate and loosely connected parts; N. episode: incident in the course of an experience ",
"philosopher who studies the nature of knowledge; N. epistemology ",
"inscription in memory of a dead person (as on a tombstone) ",
"word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing; descriptive phrase to characterize a person (often contemptous) ",
"perfect example or embodiment; brief summary; Ex. epitome of good manners; V. epitomize: make an epitome of; be an epitome of; embody ",
"period of time ",
"tranquil; of even calm temper; (of temperature) steady; uniform ",
"calmness of temperament; composure ",
"rider on horseback; ADJ. ",
"balance of opposing forces; balance of the mind; equanimity ",
"resembling a horse; Ex. equine face ",
"period of equal days and nights; the beginning of spring and autumn; Ex. vernal/autumnal equinox; ADJ. equinoctial ",
"balance; balancing force; equilibrium ",
"fair; impartial; OP. inequitable ",
"fairness; justice; OP. inequity ",
"(of words or statements) ambiguous; intentionally misleading; (of behavior) questionable; OP. unequivocal ",
"use equivocal language to deceive people; lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth; N. equivocation ",
"eat away; wear away gradually by abrasion; Ex. The sea erodes the rocks. ",
"pertaining to passionate love or sexual love ",
"wandering (esp. in search of adventure); straying from proper moral standards; Ex. knight-errant ",
"odd; irregular in movement or behavior; unpredictable ",
"mistaken; wrong; incorrect ",
"(of a person or book) learned; full of learning; scholarly; N. erudition ",
"prank; flighty conduct; reckless adventure that disobeys rules ",
"avoid habitually; Ex. eschew alcoholic drinks ",
"hard to understand; known only to the chosen few, esp. initiates; N. esoterica ",
"spying ",
"adopt; support (an idea or aim); marry; N. espousal ",
"respect; value; judge; N. ",
"(of a person) worthy of esteem; admirable; deserving esteem; possible to estimate ",
"separated; alienated; V. estrange: alienate (people in a family); N. estrangement ",
"like a spirit or fairy; unearthly light; heavenly; unusually refined; Ex. She has an ethereal beauty; CF. ether: upper air ",
"relating to races ",
"study of humankind; study of the different races of human beings; CF. anthropology ",
"underlying character of a culture, group, etc.; character or ideas peculiar to a specific person, group, or culture; Ex. the company ethos ",
"study of word parts; study of the origins of words ",
"pertaining to the improvement of race; N. eugenics: study of hereditary improvement of the human race ",
"praising; full of eulogy ",
"expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death; V. eulogize ",
"mild expression in place of an unpleasant one; ADJ. euphemistic ",
"sweet sound; ADJ. euphonious ",
"feeling of exaggerated or unfounded(ungrounded; baseless) well-being; feeling of great happiness or well-being (when unreasonable); ADJ. euphoriaric ",
"mercy killing ",
"fleeting; vanishing; soon disappearing; V. evanesce ",
"not frank; trying to hide the truth; eluding; evading; V. evade: avoid (a duty or responsibility) or escape from by deceit ",
"impartial; fair ",
"happening at last as a result; Ex. eventual victory ",
"show clearly ",
"tending to call up (emotions, memories) ",
"call forth (memory or feeling); Ex. That old film evoked memories of my childhood; N. evocation ",
"female sheep ",
"worsen; aggravate; embitter ",
"demand and obtain by force; Ex. exact a promise from him; N. exaction ",
"extremely demanding; Ex. exacting standard of safety ",
"raise in rank or dignity; praise highly; inspire; Ex. exalt the imagination; ADJ. exalted; N. exaltation ",
"vex; annoy or make angry (by testing the patience) ",
"exclude; N. exception: objection; exclusion; ADJ. exceptional: unusual; of unusually high quality ",
"objectionable; likely to cause dislike; offensive; CF. unexceptionable: entirely acceptable ",
"selected passage (written or musical) taken from a longer work; V. ",
"treasury; Ex. Chancellor of the exchequer ",
"cut away; cut out; N: government tax on good produced and used inside a country; N. excision ",
"cry out suddenly; N. exclamation; ADJ. exclamatory ",
"scold with biting harshness; censure strongly; strip the skin off ",
"clear from blame or guilt ",
"very bad; detestable ",
"curse; express abhorrence for; detest ",
"put into effect; carry out; kill as a lawful punishment; N. execution ",
"person administering capital punishment ",
"person having administrative authority; one branch of government executing laws; ADJ: relating to executing ",
"person designated to execute the terms of a will; ",
"explanation, especially of biblical(of the bible) passages ",
"serving as a model; outstanding; Ex. exemplary punishment/behavior; N. exemplar: typical example; model ",
"show by example; furnish an example; serve as an example of; Ex. His pictures exemplify that sort of painting. ",
"not subject to a duty or obligation; free from a duty; V. ",
"effort; expenditure of much physical work; V. exert oneself: make a great effort ",
"breathe out; OP. inhale ",
"invigorating and refreshing; cheering; V. exhilarate: make cheerful and excited; Ex. exhilarated by the ride in the sports car ",
"urge (by strong argument or advice); Ex. The general exhorted his men to fight bravely; N. exhortation ",
"dig out of the ground; remove from a grave ",
"urgent situation; ADJ. exigent ",
"small in amount; minute ",
"pertaining to existence; pertaining to the philosophy of existentialism ",
"departure (of a large number of people) ",
"acquit; exculpate; free from blame or guilt ",
"(of costs or demands) excessive; exceeding reasonable bounds ",
"drive out evil spirits ",
"not native; from another part of the world; strange; intriguingly unusual; Ex. exotic flower/dress ",
"(of a person) outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size ",
"talk at length; speak or write in detail ",
"exile; someone who has withdrawn from his native land; V: exile; banish; leave one's country ",
"suitable (for a particular purpose although not necessarily morally correct); practical; politic(prudent); N: something expedient ",
"hasten; make go faster ",
"done with speed; quick; N. expedition ",
"payment or expense; expending; something expended; output; Ex. receipt for the expenditure; Ex. expenditure of all the energy ",
"specialized knowledge (in a particular field); expert skill ",
"make amends for (a sin) ",
"meaningless word; interjection; profane oath; swear-word ",
"explain in detail; interpret; clarify; CF. explicable ",
"totally clear; definite; outspoken ",
"make use of, sometimes unjustly; N. exploitation ",
"public revelation of something discreditable ",
"explanatory; serving to explain; N. exposition: explaining; exhibition ",
"protest; remonstrance; reasoning with someone to correct or dissuade; V. expostulate ",
"risk, particularly of being exposed to disease or to the elements; unmasking; act of laying something open; Ex. exposure of governmental corruption ",
"explain ",
"take possession of (often for public use and without payment) ",
"cancel; remove a word or name (from a book or list); erase ",
"clean; remove offensive parts of a book ",
"delicate; very finely made; extremely beautiful; Ex. exquisite piece of jewelry ",
"(of something written or painted) still in existence ",
"not planned; impromptu; extempore ",
"weaken; mitigate; lessen the seriousness of (bad behavior) ",
"root up; uproot; destroy completely ",
"praise very highly; glorify ",
"wring from; get money by threats, etc.; obtain by force or threats; CF. extortionate: exorbitant ",
"surrender of prisoner by one state to another; Ex. extradition treaty; V. extradite ",
"not essential; irrelevant; superfluous; external; coming from the outside; Ex. extraneous details/noise/to the subject ",
"projection; conjecture; V. extrapolate: infer (unknown information) from known information ",
"free from an entanglement or difficulty; disentangle ",
"external; not essential or inherent; extraneous; OP. intrinsic ",
"person interested mostly in external objects and actions ",
"force or push out; thrust out; shape (plastic or metal) by forcing through a die ",
"overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness; ADJ. exuberant: high-spirited and lively; growing abundantly and strongly ",
"flow out slowly; discharge (gradually); give forth; N. exudation ",
"rejoice ",
"build; lie; make up (a story) in order to deceive; Ex. fabricate the whole story; CF. fabric: underlying structure; Ex. fabric of society ",
"front or face (of building); superficial or false appearance ",
"small plane surface (of a gem(precious stone)); a side ",
"joking (often inappropriately); unserious; humorous ",
"easily accomplished; ready or fluent; superficial; not deep; Ex. facile solution to a complex problem; Ex. facile speaker; N. facility: ability to do something easily and well; ease in doing resulting from skill or aptitude; something that facil ",
"help bring about; make less difficult ",
"copy ",
"party; clique (within a large group); dissension ",
"inclined to form factions; causing dissension ",
"artificial; produced artificially; sham; false; Ex. factitious tears ",
"handyman; person who does all kinds of work; CF. do everything ",
"mental or bodily powers; teaching staff ",
"not genuine; N: one that is not genuine; impostor; sham; V: counterfeit; Ex. fake the results of the experiment/the signature ",
"false; based on a fallacy; misleading; N. fallacy: false idea or notion; false reasoning; Ex. popular fallacy; Ex. fallacy of the argument ",
"liable to err ",
"(of land) plowed but not sowed (to improve the quality); uncultivated ",
"make (something written) false by changing ",
"hesitate; weaken in purpose or action; walk or move unsteadily through weakness; N. ",
"excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause; N. fanatic; ADJ. fanatic ",
"imagined; unreal ",
"breeder or dealer of animals; one who has a special interest, as for raising specific plant or animal ",
"whimsical; visionary; imaginary; produced by imagination; Ex. fanciful scheme ",
"imagination (of a whimsical or fantastic nature); capricious liking; V: imagine; be fond of; ADJ. decorative; elaborate ",
"call by bugles or trumpets; showy display; spectacular public display ",
"broad comedy; mockery; humorous play full of silly things happening; ADJ. farcical ",
"too improbable to be believed; implausible; Ex. far-fetched story ",
"give shape to; make; Ex. fashion the pot out of clay ",
"difficult to please; squeamish; fussy; finicky ",
"belief that events are determined by forces or fates beyond one's control; ADJ. fatalistic; CF. fatal: causing death ",
"comprehend; investigate; determine the depth of; N. unit of measurement for the depth of water ",
"too deep to be measured or understood; unfathomable ",
"smugly and unconsciously foolish; inane; silly; N. fatuity, fatuousness ",
"animals of a period or region; CF. flora ",
"display of partiality toward a favored person ",
"courting favor by cringing and flattering; V. fawn: exhibit affection as a dog; seek favor or attention by obsequiousness ",
"disconcert; dismay; embarrass ",
"practical; able to be carried out; practicable ",
"distinctive part of the faces (as the eyes or mouth); features: overall appearance of the face; prominent or distinctive quality; prominent article; film; V: make prominent ",
"feverish ",
"fertility; fruitfulness; ADJ. fecund: very productive of crops or young ",
"deficient in intelligence; very stupid ",
"pretend ",
"trick; shift; sham blow; feigned attack to draw away defensive action; V. ",
"(of a word or remark) apt; suitably expressed; well chosen ",
"happiness; appropriateness (of a remark, choice, etc.); quality of being felicitous ",
"of a member of the cat family; N. ",
"cut or knock down (a tree or a person); bring down (with a missile) ",
"person convicted of a grave crime; CF. felony: serious crime ",
"(of an animal) not domestic; wild ",
"agitation; commotion(noisy and excited activity); unrest (of a political kind); V. produce by fermentation; undergo fermentation; cause (a state of trouble) ",
"chemical reaction that splits complex organic compounds; unrest; agitation ",
"fierce; violent; N. ferocity ",
"drive or hunt out of hiding; hunt with ferrets; drive out (as from a hiding place); expel; uncover or discover by searching; Ex. ferret out the secret; N. small fierce animal which catches rats and rabbits by going into their holes ",
"producing many young, fruits, or seeds; (of land) producing good crops; V. fertilize ",
"ardent; zealous; hot ",
"ardent; zealous; hot ",
"glowing ardor; intensity of feeling; quality of being fervent or fervid; zeal; intense heat ",
"rankle; produce irritation or resentment; (of a cut or wound) generate pus or rot; Ex. His insult festered in my mind for days. ",
"joyous; celebratory; relating to a feast or festival ",
"honor at a festival; celebrate or honor with a feast; N. (outdoor) festival or feast; CF. feast ",
"malodorous; foul ",
"object believed to have spiritual powers; object of excessive attention or reverence; CF. fetishism ",
"shackle; restrict the freedom of; N. chain or shackle for the foot of a prisoner; CF. foot ",
"bitter prolonged quarrel (usually between two peoples or families); V. CF. Romeo and Juliet; CF. feudal, feudalism ",
"total failure; CF. bottle ",
"command; arbitrary order; Ex. presidential fiat; CF. let it be done ",
"changeable (in affections or friendship); faithless ",
"imaginary; non-existent; purposely invented to deceive; untrue; Ex. fictitious name/boyfriend; CF. fictional ",
"loyalty; accuracy ",
"evil spirit; devil ",
"invention; something invented; imaginary thing; Ex. figment of your imagination",
"not literal but metaphorical; using a figure(impression) of speech ",
"written symbols; number; amount represented in numbers; outline or silhouette of a thing or human body; person (well-known); impression; diagram; pattern; group in a dance; Ex. figure of speech; V. calculate with numbers; adorn with figures; app ",
"small ornamental statuette(very small statue) ",
"steal (things of small value) ",
"pertaining to or befitting a son or daughter; Ex. filial respect ",
"block legislation or prevent action in a lawmaking body by making very slow long speeches; N; freebooter ",
"delicate ornamental lacelike metalwork ",
"particle removed by a file ",
"dirty matter; ADJ. filthy ",
"conclusion; concluding part ",
"beautiful clothes for a special occasion ",
"delicate skill; V: handle with finesse ",
"too particular; fussy; difficult to please; too concerned with unimportant details or quality; Ex. finicky about her food ",
"surface texture; completeness of execution ",
"properly made and complete; Ex. finished product/performance ",
"limited ",
"piece of burning wood; hothead; troublemaker; person who stirs up trouble ",
"crevice; crack ",
"sudden outburst of an illness or feeling; convulsion caused by epilepsy ",
"spasmodic; intermittent; irregular ",
"flabby; lacking firmness; weak; Ex. flaccid muscles ",
"droop; grow feeble; decline in vigor or strength; ADJ. flagging; CF. unflagging ",
"conspicuously wicked, bad, or offensive; blatant; outrageous ",
"beat with or as if with a flail; move wildly; thresh grain by hand; strike or slap; toss about; N: threshing tool consisting of a stick swinging from the end of a long handle ",
"talent ",
"ornate; highly elaborate; richly colored; ostentatious; showy; CF. flame ",
"showy; gaudy; giving a momentary brilliance ",
"display ostentatiously; Ex. ``Honey, if you've got it, flaunt it !'' ",
"strip off skin; plunder; remove the skin from; criticize harshly ",
"spot; mark with flecks; N: small mark or spot ",
"inexperienced; N: young bird that has acquired wing feathers and is learning to fly; inexperienced person ",
"wool coat of a sheep; V: shear the fleece from; rob by a trick; swindle; plunder ",
"fast; rapid; N. ADJ. fleeting: passing quickly; ephemeral ",
"light stroke as with a whip; V: move with a light quick blow; strike with a light quick blow (as from a whip); Ex. flick the switch ",
"burn unsteadily or fitfully; move waveringly; N: flickering movement or light; brief sensation; Ex. flicker of excitement ",
"(esp. of a woman's behavior) capricious; often changing, esp. from one lover to another; impulsive ",
"hesitate; shrink back (in fear of something unpleasant); Ex. She did not flinch in the face of danger. ",
"send (something) spinning, often into the air, by striking with a light quick blow; turn over; Ex. flip over ",
"lacking proper seriousness; Ex. flippant remarks about death; N. flippancy ",
"behave in a way that attracts (sexual) attention; deal triflingly with; N: one (or woman) given to flirting; ADJ. flirtatious ",
"fly; fly or move lightly or quickly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by; Ex. a bee flitting from flower to flower ",
"flat mass of floating ice ",
"plants of a region or era ",
"condition or period of flowering ",
"ruddy; (of a complexion) reddish; flowery; very ornate; CF. rose ",
"drifting wreckage ",
"struggle and thrash about; proceed clumsily or falter (as in water, mud, snow, etc.); proceed in confusion ",
"grow well; prosper; make sweeping gestures; wave; brandish; Ex. The trees flourished in the sun. N: showy movement or gesture; embellishment or ornamentation (esp. in handwriting) ",
"reject; mock; show contempt for; scorn; Ex. flout the rules ",
"full of flowers; full of ornate expressions ",
"waver; shift; rise and fall as if in waves; change or vary irregularly ",
"smoothness of speech; ADJ. fluent ",
"unlikely occurrence; stroke of fortune; accidental stroke of good luck; ADJ. fluky ",
"redden; blush; flow suddenly and abundantly; wash out by a rapid brief flow of water; N: reddish tinge; blush; brief rush; rush of strong feeling; Ex. flush of pride; ADJ: having surfaces in the same plane; even; blushing ",
"confuse; make nervous and confused; N. ",
"having vertical parallel grooves (as in a pillar); V. flute: make long parallel inward curves in; N. flute: long rounded groove incised on the shaft of a column ",
"(of a bird with large wings) wave (the wings) lightly, rapidly, and irregularly; vibrate rapidly or erratically; fly by waving quickly; flitter; N. ",
"flowing; series of changes; fluctuation; Ex. in a state of flux ",
"coarse food for cattle, horses, etc.; feed for livestock; CF. food ",
"small weakness of character; slight fault; CF. feeble ",
"defeat; frustrate; prevent from being successful; thwart; CF. fail ",
"insert improperly; impose upon another by coercion; palm off; pass off as genuine or worthy; CF. fist ",
"masses of leaves; CF. defoliate ",
"stir up; incite; instigate; promote the growth of (something evil or unpleasant) ",
"rash; reckless; foolishly daring ",
"vain about dress and appearance; N. fop: man who takes too much interest in his clothes and appearance ",
"raid; sudden raid or military advance; V. ",
"patience; forgiveness; V. forbear: refrain from (in a generous and forgiving way); be patient; Ex. forbear to send him to prison ",
"place where a river can be crossed on foot; V. ",
"ancestors ",
"premonition of evil; feeling of coming evil; V. forebode: be a warning of (something unpleasant) ",
"suitable to debate or courts of law; of or used in legal proceedings and the tracking of criminals; Ex. forensic science/medicine ",
"predecessor; one that comes before and indicates the approach of another ",
"give an indication beforehand; be a sign of (what is coming); portend; prefigure ",
"ability to foresee future happenings; prudence in providing for the future ",
"prevent by taking action in advance ",
"something surrendered as punishment for a crime or breach of contract; V: lose as a forfeit; N. forfeiture ",
"counterfeit; reproduce fraudulently; form by heating in a forge and hammering into shape; move with a sudden increase of speed or power; Ex. forged ahead in the last two years; N: furnace where metals are heated ",
"give up; do without ",
"sad and lonely; wretched; desolate ",
"ceremonious quality; ceremonious adherence to rules; something done just for form's sake; Ex. mere formality ",
"menacing; arousing fear; threatening; difficult to defeat; Ex. formidable foe/question ",
"desert; abandon; renounce ",
"renounce under oath; abandon; make a solemn promise to give up; CF. abjure ",
"strong point or special talent in a person's character ",
"happening in the near future; ready; willing to help; Ex. No answer was forthcoming. ",
"straightforward; direct; frank ",
"bravery; courage; strength of mind ",
"accidental; by chance; N. fortuity ",
"public square of an ancient Roman city; public place for open discussion; court of law ",
"presumptuous or bold ",
"rear; bring up (for a certain period only); encourage; promote the development of (feelings or ideas); Ex. help foster friendly relations; ADJ: giving parental care although not related by blood; Ex. foster parents ",
"very bad or disagreeable; very dirty; Ex. foul smell/flavor/temper/language/air/deed/weather/means; N. act against the rules; V. make or become foul; commit a foul ",
"person who establishes (an organization or business) ",
"brawl(noisy quarrel or fight) in which a number of people take part; melee ",
"unruly; peevish; cranky; bad-tempered; Ex. fractious horse ",
"weak; N. frailty ",
"right or privilege granted by authority; right to vote; license to sell a product in a particular territory ",
"wild; distraught as from fear or worry; Ex. frantic with fear ",
"cheating; deceitful; Ex. fraudulent means; N. fraud: deception; swindle ",
"filled (with something unpleasant); full; Ex. fraught with danger and difficulties; CF. freight ",
"brawl; fight; V: wear away or unravel by rubbing; have loose threads developing; cause to become worn out (a person's temper or nerves); CF. rub ",
"pirate or plunderer who makes war in order to grow rich ",
"frenzied; frantic ",
"madly excited; N. frenzy: violent wild excitement ",
"painting on wet plaster (usually fresh) ",
"be annoyed or vexed; Ex. fret over your poor grades; N: irritation of mind; ADJ. fretful ",
"clash or conflict in opinion; rubbing against ",
"ornamental horizontal band on a wall ",
"intensely cold; cold in manner; Ex. frigid zone ",
"decorative edge of hanging threads; edge ",
"move about playfully; froric; ADJ. frisky: playful ",
"waste (time or money on unimportant things) ",
"lacking in seriousness; flippant; self-indulgently carefree; unworthy of serious attention; relatively unimportant; trivial ",
"long loose garment (worn by monks) ",
"play and jump about happily; frisk; Ex. frolicking young lambs ",
"prankish; gay; playful; merry; frisky ",
"fern leaf; palm or banana leaf ",
"bear fruit; produce fruit ",
"thrift; economy; ADJ. frugal: practicing economy; costing little; inexpensive ",
"producing results; profitable; prolific; producing in abundance ",
"bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization; Ex. come to/be brought to fruition ",
"thwart; defeat; prevent from accomplishing a purpose ",
"make stupid or confused as with alcholic drink; N. in a fuddle: confused ",
"fleeting or transitory; lasting only a short time; roving(wandering); running away or fleeing as from the law; N: one who flees; Ex. fugitives at large ",
"support on which a lever rests or pivots ",
"thunder; explode; issue a severe denunciation ",
"disgustingly excessive; offensively flattering; Ex. fulsome praise/expressions of admire ",
"move the fingers and hands awkwardly (in search of something); mishandle or drop a ball that is in play; bungle; botch; spoil by mishandling; N. ",
"made for practical use only (without decoration); functioning; Ex. functional modern furniture; CF. functionalism ",
"official (who performs a particular function) ",
"basic; primary; essential ",
"sad; solemn; suitable for a funeral ",
"frenzy; great anger and excitement; CF. fury ",
"long shallow trench made by a plow; deep wrinkle in the skin; V. ",
"stealthy; quiet and secret (trying to escape notice); sneaky; Ex. furtive glance ",
"simultaneous firing or outburst (of missiles, questions, etc.) ",
"union; coalition; V. fuse ",
"trouble or worry over trifles; make nervous; pay too much attention to; N: needless concern or worry (about a trivial thing); anxious nervous condition; display of attention; Ex. make a fuss over the baby ",
"fastidious; finicky; easily upset ",
"useless; hopeless; ineffectual ",
"animal-biting fly; irritating person ",
"social blunder ",
"deny ",
"manner of walking or running; speed ",
"large isolated system of stars, such as the Milky Way; collection of brilliant personalities ",
"windstorm; gust of wind; emotional outburst (laughters, tears); Ex. gale of laughter ",
"annoy; exasperate; chafe; N: skin sore caused by rubbing (as on the skin of a horse); exasperation ",
"large three-masted sailing ship ",
"low ship with sails (rowed along by slaves) ",
"framework from which a noose is suspended (used for execution by hanging) ",
"of the production of electricity by the action of an acid on a metal; having the effect of an electric shock; Ex. galvanic cell; galvanic effect; CF. Luigi Galvani ",
"stimulate or shock by an electric current; stimulate by shock; shock into action; stir up; coat with rust-resistant zinc by using electricity ",
"opening in chess in which a piece is sacrificed; action made to produce a future advantage ",
"romp; skip about; leap about playfully; frolic; N. ",
"in a spirited manner; with courage; Ex. fight gamely against a superior boxer; ADJ. game ",
"entire range ",
"decay of body tissue caused by insufficient blood supply (usually following injury); ADJ. gangrenous ",
"open widely; open the mouth wide; stare wonderingly with the mouth open; CF. agape ",
"mixed up; jumbled; distorted; V. garble: mix up or distort (a message) to such an extent as to make misleading or unintelligible ",
"huge; enormous; gigantic; CF. the hero of Gargantua and Pantagruel ",
"waterspout carved in grotesque figures on a building ",
"overbright in color; unpleasantly bright; gaudy ",
"gather; store up; amass ",
"decorate; add a garnish to; decorate (food or drink) with small items such as lemon slices; N. ",
"loquacious; wordy; talkative; N. garrulity ",
"art and science of preparing and serving good food; CF. gastronome ",
"clumsy (in social behavior); coarse and uncouth ",
"flashy; showy ",
"lean and angular; thin and bony; emaciated; barren ",
"hammerlike tool; mallet(wooden hammer) used by a presiding officer or an auctioneer; V. ",
"stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe ",
"official periodical publication; newspaper ",
"record of descent; lineage; ancestry; study of ancestry ",
"vague statement; general statement which is not detailed; quality of being general; greater part; most; Ex. generality of people ",
"cause; produce; create ",
"characteristic of an entire class or species; of a genus ",
"beginning; origin ",
"cheerfulness; kindliness; sympathy; ADJ. genial: cheerful and good-tempered ",
"particular variety of art or literature ",
"well-bred; elegant; striving to convey an appearance of refinement; Ex. genteel poverty ",
"those of gentle birth; high social class; refinement; quality of being genteel ",
"kindly; soft; mild; of good family ",
"people of standing(rank or position); people of good family or high social position; class of people just below nobility ",
"bend the knee as in worship ",
"division of animals or plants, below a family and above a species ",
"medical treatment and care of old age ",
"earliest form of an organism; seed or bud; something that may develop into something larger or more important; microbe ",
"pertinent; bearing upon(having connection with) the case at hand; appropriate ",
"pertaining to a germ; creative; Ex. germinal idea ",
"cause to sprout; sprout ",
"government ruled by old people ",
"study of the sociological phenomena associated with old age ",
"change voting district lines in order to favor a political party; N. CF. Elbridge Gerry + (sala)mander ",
"evolve as in prenatal growth; N. gestation: period of development from conception until birth ",
"motion; gesture; V. gesticulate: make gestures (while speaking) ",
"horrible; terrifying; resembling ghosts; CF. aghast ",
"nonsense; nonsensical or unintelligible talk or writing; babbling ",
"mock; make jeering remarks; N: jeering remarks ",
"light-hearted; not serious; frivolous; dizzy; causing dizziness; Ex. giddy youth; Ex. giddy climb/height ",
"cover with a thin layer of gold ",
"very carefully; ADJ. ",
"distance around something; circumference ",
"essence; main point; substance ",
"like a glacier; of an ice age; extremely cold; Ex. glacial epoch; CF. iceberg ",
"compelling charm; ADJ. glamorous ",
"shine intensely and blindingly; stare fixedly and angrily; N. ",
"(of something bad) highly conspicuous; harshly bright; shining intensely and blindingly ",
"cover with a thin and shiny surface; apply a glaze to; N: thin, smooth, shiny coating (as for pottery); Ex. unglazed pottery ",
"brief flash of light; glow; V. ",
"gather leavings; gather grain left behind by reapers; gather bit by bit (facts or information) often with difficulty ",
"fluent (with insincerity or superficiality); facile; slick ",
"shine erratically; twinkle; N: dim or unsteady light; faint indication; Ex. glimmer of hope ",
"shine brightly with flashing points of light; Ex. glittering diamond ring; N: sparkling light; attractiveness; glamor; Ex. glitter of the sun on the waves ",
"express evil satisfaction; look at or think about with evil satisfaction; view malevolently; Ex. The thief gloated over the stolen jewels. ",
"brief explanation note or translation of a difficult expression; V. ",
"explain away with the intention of deceiving or hiding faults ",
"brief explanation of words used in the text ",
"smooth and shining; N. gloss: shiny brightness on a surface; superficially attractive appearance; Ex. gloss of good manners ",
"shine brightly without a flame (as of eyes or metals); show redness and heat (in the face) after hard work or because of strong feelings; N: light produced by a heated body; brilliance of a color ",
"scowl; glare; look or stare angrily ",
"overstock; fill beyond capacity (with food); fill to excess; N: oversupply ",
"sticky; viscous; gluey ",
"someone who eats too much; ADJ. gluttonous: given to gluttony; greedy; CF. gluttony: habit of eating too much ",
"protruding knot on a tree; V. ",
"twisted ",
"dwarf; underground spirit who guards treasure hoards ",
"urge on; drive with a goad; cause (someone) to do something by continued annoyance; Ex. They goaded him into doing it by saying he was a coward; N: sharp-pointed stick for driving cattle; stimulus; CF. annoy continually ",
"eat very quickly ",
"stuff oneself (with food); glut; CF. gorgeous: dazzlingly beautiful ",
"bloody; N. gore: blood (from a wound) ",
"sheer; very light; like cobwebs; N: soft and sheer fabric; cobweb ",
"overcharge (with high price); extort from; Ex. gouge the public; CF. usury ",
"epicure; person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink ",
"connoisseur of food and drink; epicure ",
"kind in a generous way (to someone less important) ",
"series of gradual stages; degree in such a progression ",
"arrange into categories or grades; divide into marked intervals (for use in measurement); Ex. graduated ruler ",
"arranged by degrees (of height, difficulty, etc.) ",
"storehouse for grain ",
"impressiveness; stateliness; majesty ",
"(of a person or speech) using high sounding or important-sounding language; pompous; bombastic ",
"affectedly grand; pretentious; high-flown; ridiculously exaggerated; impressive; great in size or scope; grand; Ex. grandiose ideas ",
"form into grains or granules; N. granule: grain or particle ",
"pertaining to the art of delineating; vividly described ",
"black form of carbon used in lead pencils ",
"wrestle; come to grips with; take hold of and struggle with; Ex. grapple with the burglar ",
"make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred by rubbing against a rough surface; Ex. grated cheese N: framework of metal bars to hold fuel in a fireplace ",
"please; satisfy; Ex. gratify a desire ",
"free; without charge; ADJ. ",
"given freely; unwarranted; uncalled for; done without good reason; Ex. gratuitous comment ",
"n. money given to sb who has done one a service; tip ; ",
"seriousness; ADJ. grave ",
"(of an animal) feed on growing grass; cause (an animal) to feed on grass; scrape (esp. the skin) or touch lightly in passing; brush; Ex. We can't graze the cattle till summer; N: surface wound ",
"sociable; (of an animal) tending to form a group ",
"cause of complaint; complaint ",
"question severely; cook on a grill; broil; N: cooking surface of parallel metal bars ",
"causing great fear; unrelenting; determined in spite of fear; Ex. grim smile ",
"facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust, etc; V. ",
"ghastly; horrifying; Ex. grisly remains of the bodies ",
"man employed to take care of horses; V: make neat and trim; clean and brush (an animal) ",
"long narrow channel made in a surface to guide the movement of something; Ex. groove of the record ",
"total; fragrant; clearly wrong; (of people's behavior) coarse; corpulent; Ex. gross insolence/behavior; V: earn as a total amount; N: 12 dozens ",
"fantastic; comically hideous; strange and unnatural (causing fear or amusement) ",
"small cavern ",
"bad-tempered complaint; person who keeps complaining; V: complain; grumble ",
"complain; fuss; grumble; grouch; N: plump chickenlike game bird ",
"crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate; behave in a servile manner ",
"low, guttural, menacing sound (as of a dog) ",
"deep feeling of dislike; Ex. grudge fight; V. ",
"unwilling; reluctant; stingy(giving reluctantly) ",
"thin liquid porridge ",
"exhausting; Ex. grueling marathon race ",
"grisly; horrible ",
"rough-mannered; (of a voice) rough; hoarse ",
"complain; mutter discontentedly; grouch; N. ",
"utter a deep guttural sound (as a pig does); N. ",
"boisterous laughter; V. ",
"deceit; duplicity; wiliness; cunning; Ex. persuade her by guile ",
"without deceit ",
"outward appearance; costume; Ex. in a new guise ",
"trick; deceive; hoodwink; N: person who is easily tricked; dupe ",
"easily deceived ",
"(of liquid) pour out in large quantities from a hole; make an excessive display of feeling (without true feeling); Ex. Blood gushed from the wound. ",
"strong abrupt rush of wind; V. CF. bluster ",
"affecting or relating to the sense of taste ",
"eager enjoyment; zest; enthusiasm ",
"windy ",
"cable or chain attached to something that needs to be braced or steadied; CF. guide ",
"apparatus used to maintain balance, ascertain direction, etc. ",
"natural home of a plant or animal; CF. habitation ",
"accustom or familiarize; addict ",
"hairs on back and neck, especially of a dog; Ex. make someone's hackles rise ",
"commonplace; trite ",
"wasted away; gaunt; Ex. haggard faces of the rescued miners ",
"argue about prices (in an attempt to bargain) ",
"frozen rain drop; V: salute or greet; precipitate hail ",
"calm; peaceful; Ex. halcyon days ",
"healthy ",
"exhibiting little interest or enthusiasm ",
"blessed; consecrated; Ex. hallowed ground; V. hallow: set apart as holy ",
"delusion; false idea; false perception of objects with a compelling sense of their reality; objects so perceived; V. hallucinate; ADJ. hallucinatory ",
"hesitant; faltering; not fluent; Ex. halting steps/voice; V. halt: proceed or act with uncertainty; falter; hesitate; waver; stop ",
"obstruct; prevent the free movement of; ",
"large in quantity; generous; Ex. handsome reward ",
"chance; luck ",
"random; by chance; happening in an unplanned manner; Ex. haphazard growth of the town ",
"unfortunate; luckless ",
"long, passionate, and vehement speech; V. ",
"annoy by repeated attacks ",
"forerunner (which foreshadows what is to come) ",
"give protection (by giving food and shelter); provide a refuge for; hide; keep in mind (thoughts or feelings); Ex. harbor a grudge/criminal; N: place of shelter; refuge ",
"(of people or animals) sturdy; robust; (of plants) able to stand inclement(stormy) weather ",
"tiresome dwelling on a subject; V. harp: dwell on(think or speak a lot about) tediously ",
"agonizing; distressing; traumatic; V. harrow: break up and level (soil) with a harrow; inflict great distress on; agonize; N: farming machine to break up the earth ",
"harass, annoy, torment (by repeated attacks); raid ",
"deck opening; lid covering a deck opening; V: emerge from an egg; produce (young) from an egg ",
"pride; arrogance; ADJ. haughty ",
"(of a spirit) visit (a place); come to mind continually; visit (a place) regularly; frequent; Ex. haunted house; Ex. haunted by his last words; N: place much frequented ",
"place of safety; refuge; harbor; Ex. tax haven ",
"widespread damage; disorder; chaos ",
"venture; put in danger; risk; Ex. hazard a guess; N: possible source of danger ",
"dangerous ",
"slightly obscure; misty; unclear; N. haze: light mist or smoke; confused state of mind ",
"moving with the head leading; headlong ",
"hasty; rash; headfirst; ADV. ",
"willful; stubborn; unyielding; determined to have one's own way; CF. no 'excessive' ",
"conducive to good health; Ex. healthful mountain air ",
"possessing good health; healthful ",
"person who verbally harasses others; V. heckle: verbally harass as with gibes (by interrupting a speaker or speech) ",
"one who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life; CF. hedonism: practice of living one's life purely for pleasure ",
"pay attention to; N: close attention ",
"not noticing; disregarding ",
"dominance especially of one nation over others ",
"atrocious; wicked; hatefully bad; Ex. heinous crime ",
"steering wheel of a ship; position of control ",
"surround tightly so that movement is impossible; Ex. hem in; N. ",
"messenger; sign of something to come; V: announce; proclaim; Ex. unheralded researcher ",
"grain-eating; CF. herbivore ",
"group of animals; crowd; one who looks after a herd; Ex. shepherd/goatherd; Ex. herd instinct; Ex. herdsman; V: come together in a herd; look after a herd; Ex. herd cattle ",
"life after death ",
"opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion; ADJ. heretical; CF. heretic ",
"concerning alchemy or magic; obscure and mysterious; occult ",
"home of a hermit ",
"one who studies reptiles; CF. herpetology: branch of zoology that deals with reptiles and amphibians ",
"(of beliefs) against accepted opinion; unorthodox; unconventional ",
"dissimilar; mixed; not homogeneous; consisting of dissimilar elements or plants ",
"cut to pieces with ax or sword; chop; N. ",
"time of greatest success or power; prime ",
"gap; pause; gap or interruption in space or time; break ",
"wintry; wintery; of or like winter ",
"sleep throughout the winter; N. hibernation ",
"skin of an animal ",
"repulsive to the sight; ugly; repugnant; Ex. hideous face/scream ",
"arrangement by rank or standing; authoritarian body divided into ranks; body of persons having authority ",
"picture writing; ADJ. ",
"highly pretentious or inflated ",
"boisterous mirth(merriment; laughter); ADJ. hilarious: full of laughter ",
"furthest behind; farthest to the rear ",
"block; obstacle; V. hinder ",
"understanding the nature of an event after it has actually happened ",
"back country; inner part of a country; OP. foreland ",
"one who serves for hire (usually used contemptuously); one who works solely for compensation; Ex. hireling politician ",
"hairy; having a lot of hair ",
"important in history; Ex. historic battle ",
"connected with history; based on events in history (whether regarded as important or not) ",
"theatrical; excessively dramatic or emotional; affected; of actors or acting; N. histrionics: histrionic behavior ",
"box for bees; V: cause to go in a hive ",
"stockpile; accumulate for future use; N: supply stored for future use ",
"white with age ",
"trick which makes someone take action; practical joke; Ex. hoax mail; V. ",
"destruction by fire; CF. burnt whole; CF. Holocaust ",
"leather pistol case (that hangs on a belt around the waist) ",
"honor; tribute; great respect; Ex. pay/do homage to ",
"not good-looking; unattractive ",
"tendency of a system or organism to maintain relative stability or internal equilibrium; CF. homeo-: constant; Ex. homeotherm ",
"domestic; made at home; spun or woven at home; simple and ordinary; Ex. homespun philosophy ",
"sermon; tedious moralizing lecture; serious warning; ADJ. homiletic ",
"of the same kind; uniform in composition throughout ",
"sharpen (a tool); N: whetstone for sharpening a tool ",
"deceive; delude ",
"crowd; swarm ",
"diagram of the positions of stars at a given moment (eg. of a person's birth) used by astrologers ",
"encouraging; exhortive; marked by exhortation; CF. exhort ",
"pertaining to cultivation of gardens; N. horticulture: science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants; CF. agriculture: science or art of farming or growing crops ",
"person who is kept as a prisoner by an enemy so that the other side will do what the enemy demands ",
"unfriendliness; hatred; enmity; ADJ. hostile ",
"person who does things too quickly without thinking; ADJ. hotheaded ",
"shack; small wretched house ",
"hang about; (of birds or aircraft) stay in the air in one place; (of people) wait nearby; stay around one place; waver; be in an uncertain state ",
"confused uproar; loud noise; din ",
"arrogance; excessive self-conceit ",
"color; aspect; Ex. opinions of every hue ",
"outcry; loud cry or clamor; strong protest; Ex. hue and cry against the new rule ",
"husk; dry outer covering of a seed; frame or body of a ship ",
"marked by kindness or consideration; kind and compassionate; humanitarian ",
"one devoted to the promotion of human welfare; CF. humanism ",
"of low rank or position; modest; having a low opinion of oneself and a high opinion of others; unassuming; not proud; V. humiliate: make humble; cause to feel ashamed or to lose the respect of others ",
"dull; monotonous ",
"damp; N. humidity ",
"humbleness of spirit ",
"small hill; hillock ",
"indulge; comply with the wishes of; N. quality that makes something amusing; state of mind; mood; Ex. in a bad humor; Ex. out of humor ",
"substance or rich soil formed by decaying vegetable matter; CF. soil ",
"throw forcefully; shout out violently ",
"crash; rush; move with great speed; Ex. hurtling runaway train ",
"use sparingly; conserve; save; Ex. husband one's energy; CF. house holder ",
"frugality; thrift; economy; agriculture; farming; Ex. animal husbandry; CF. husbandman ",
"crude dwelling; shack ",
"mongrel; mixed breed; V. hybridize ",
"fear of water; rabies ",
"science and practice of the promotion and preservation of health; ADJ. hygienic: showing careful attention to cleanness (to prevent disease); Ex. hygienic condition ",
"exaggeration; overstatement; ADJ. hyperbolic: of hyperbole; of a hyperbola ",
"excessively exacting; too critical (without noticing good qualities) ",
"induced sleeping state; ADJ. hypnotic; V. hypnotize ",
"person unduly worried about his health; worrier without cause about illness; ADJ. CF. hypochondria: neurosis that one is or is becoming ill; CF. abdomen ",
"pretending to be virtuous; deceiving; N. hypocrisy: profession of beliefs one does not possess; CF. hypocrite ",
"based on assumptions or hypotheses; supposed; N. hypothesis ",
"excessive or uncontrollable excitement; N. hysteric: person suffering from hysteria; CF. hysterics: attack of hysteria ",
"study of fish; CF. ichthyo-: fish ",
"religious image; idol; image or representation ",
"attacking cherished traditions; N. iconoclast: one who attacks traditional ideas; one who destroys sacred images ",
"system of ideas characteristic of a group or culture ",
"expression whose meaning as a whole differs from the meanings of its individual words; distinctive style (of expression); Ex. idiom of the modern popular music; ADJ. idiomatic ",
"individual trait usually odd in nature; behavioral peculiarity; eccentricity; attitude, behavior, or opinion peculiar to a person; anything highly individual or eccentric; ADJ. idiosyncratic ",
"not working; not employed or busy; lazy; without purpose; useless; lacking substance; baseless; not based on truth; Ex. idle worker; Ex. talk idly; V. ",
"worship of idols; excessive admiration or devotion; ADJ. idolatrous ",
"short poem idealizing rural life; simple happy period of life (in the country); scene from such a time; Ex. idyll of two young lovers ",
"charmingly carefree; simple and happy; Ex. idyllic scene ",
"produced by fire; of fire; volcanic; (of rocks) formed from lava; Ex. igneous meteorite ",
"kindle; light; catch fire or set fire to ",
"unworthy; not noble; dishonorable; Ex. ignoble deed ",
"deep disgrace; shame or dishonor; ADJ. ignominious; Ex. ignominous defeat ",
"illegal ",
"infinite; limitless ",
"brighten; clear up or make understandable; enlighten; enable to understand; Ex. illuminating remarks ",
"misleading vision or visual image; false idea or belief; CF. delusion ",
"deceiving; based on illusion; causing illusion; deceptive ",
"illusive; deceptive; not real ",
"lack of balance or symmetry; disproportion ",
"weakness of mind; state of being an imbecile; N. imbecile: stupid person; fool ",
"drink in ",
"complicated situation (as in a play); painful or complex misunderstanding (as in a play); entanglement; confused mass (as of papers); V. embroil ",
"saturate(soak thoroughly); fill; Ex. imbue someone with feelings ",
"spotless; flawless; absolutely clean ",
"impending; near at hand ",
"state of being immovable ",
"offer or kill as a sacrifice (by fire) ",
"resistant to; free or exempt from; N. immunity ",
"imprison; shut up in confinement; CF. wall ",
"unchangeable ",
"injure; hurt; damage ",
"pierce (with a sharp point); Ex. impaled by the spear ",
"imperceptible(not easily understood); intangible; OP. palpable: tangible; easily perceptible ",
"grant a share of; make known; Ex. news to impart ",
"not biased; fair; N. impartiality ",
"not able to be traveled or crossed ",
"predicament(dangerous condition) from which there is no escape; situation allowing for no further progress ",
"(of speech) filled with passion; fervent ",
"without feeling; expressionless; imperturbable; stoical; Ex. impassive face ",
"charge (a public official) with crime in office; raise doubts about; indict; Ex. impeach a witness's credibility ",
"faultless ",
"without money ",
"hide; retard or obstruct the progress of; block ",
"hindrance; stumbling-block; speech defect preventing clear articulation; Ex. speech impediment ",
"drive or force onward; drive to take action; urge to action ",
"nearing; approaching; about to happen ",
"not able to be pierced or entered; beyond understanding; impossible to understand; Ex. impenetrable mystery ",
"not repentant ",
"absolutely necessary; that must be done; critically important; expressing command; Ex. It is imperative that; N: something that must be done ",
"unnoticeable; impossible to perceive; undetectable ",
"like an emperor; related to an empire; CF. imperialism ",
"put in danger ",
"domineering; too commanding; haughty; CF. imperial/emperor ",
"impervious; not permitting passage through its substance; impossible to permeate ",
"not being a person; not showing personal feelings; Ex. impersonal force/manner/organization ",
"insolent; rude; not pertinent; N. impertinence ",
"unshakably calm; placid ",
"impenetrable; incapable of being damaged or distressed; incapable of being affected (in one's opinions); Ex. impervious to water/criticism ",
"violent; hasty; rash; impulsive; without careful thought; Ex. impetuous decision ",
"moving force; momentum; force of a moving body; incentive; stimulus; impulse ",
"irreverence; lack of respect for God or piety ",
"infringe; encroach; influence; touch; collide with; Ex. The effects are impinging on every aspect of our lives. ",
"irreverent ",
"incapable of being pacified; impossible to appease; Ex. implacable enemy ",
"unlikely (to be true); unbelievable; Ex. implausible alibi ",
"put into effect; enforce; carry out; supply with tools; Ex. implement the plan/suggestion; N: tool or instrument ",
"incriminate; involve incriminatingly; show to be involved (in a crime); Ex. implicate someone in the crime ",
"something hinted at or suggested; implying; implicating ",
"understood but not stated; implied; unquestioning and complete; Ex. implicit trust ",
"burst inward; CF. vaccum tube ",
"v. ask or beg earnestly; beseech ",
"suggest a meaning not expressed; signify ",
"not wise; not expedient; not politic ",
"weightless; that cannot undergo precise evaluation; CF. pound ",
"significance; importance; meaning ",
"urging; always demanding; troublesomely urgent or persistent ",
"beg persistently; make repeated requests (in an annoying way) ",
"assuming a false identity; masquerade; CF. impostor ",
"weak; ineffective; lacking in physical strength or power ",
"make poor; deprive of natural strength or something important; Ex. impoverished soil ",
"curse; swearword ",
"invulnerable; impossible to capture or enter by force; Ex. impregnable fort/argument; CF. take ",
"make pregnant; fill thoroughly; saturate ",
"without previous preparation; off the cuff(end of a sleeve); on the spur of the moment ",
"improperness; unsuitableness ",
"thriftless; not providing for the future ",
"compose on the spur of the moment ",
"lacking caution; not prudent; injudicious ",
"impertinence; insolence ",
"dispute or contradict (often in an insulting way); attack as false or questionable; challenge; gainsay; CF. fight ",
"powerlessness; feebleness ",
"freedom from punishment or harm; CF. punish ",
"attribute; ascribe; charge; N. imputation ",
"unintentionally; by oversight; carelessly ",
"not to be taken away; nontransferable; Ex. inalienable rights ",
"woman whom a man loves ",
"silly; senseless; Ex. inane remarks; N. inanity ",
"lifeless; not animate ",
"speechless; producing indistinct speech; not articulate; not expressing oneself clearly ",
"since; owing to the fact that ",
"begin formally; install in office; induct into office by a formal ceremony; N. inauguration; ADJ. inaugural ",
"strikingly bright; shining with intense heat; emitting visible light when heated; Ex. incandescent light bulb; CF. candle ",
"singing or chanting of magic spells; magical formula; (the saying of) words used in magic; CF. enchant ",
"disable; N. incapacity: lack of capacity ",
"imprison ",
"endowed with flesh; invested with bodily form; personified; Ex. devil incarnate; V: give bodily form to; embody ",
"act of assuming a human body and human nature; one who personifies something; personification; Ex. previous incarnation/reincarnation ",
"arsonist; ADJ: causing fire; of arson; Ex. incendiary bomb ",
"enrage; infuriate(make furious); make extremely angry; outrage; N: aromatic substance burned to produce a pleasant odor ",
"spur; motive; something which encourages one to greater activity ",
"start; beginning ",
"uninterrupted; unceasing ",
"(of desire, wish, plan) recently begun; not explicit; at the beginning of development; rudimentary; elementary; Ex. inchoate mass ",
"rate of occurrence; particular occurrence; Ex. high incidence of infant mortality ",
"event; event that causes a crisis ",
"not essential; minor; N: something incidental ",
"burn to ashes ",
"beginning; in an early stage ",
"(appreciatively) cutting; sharp; Ex. incisive remarks; V. incise: make a cut into ",
"arouse to action; goad; motivate; induce to exist; Ex. incite a riot/the crowd to rebellion ",
"stormy; unkind; unmerciful; CF. clement ",
"slope; slant; Ex. steep incline ",
"tending or leaning toward; bent; V. incline: slant; dispose; be disposed; tend ",
"tending to include all; all-inclusive; Ex. inclusive charge ",
"with identity concealed; using an assumed name; ADJ. ",
"unintelligible; muddled; unable to express one's thoughts in an orderly manner; illogical; lacking cohesion; not coherent ",
"not spacious; inconvenient ",
"inharmonious; N. incompatibility ",
"lack of harmony; absurdity; ADJ. incongruous: lacking in harmony; inappropriate ",
"insignificant; unimportant ",
"state of being self-contradictory; lack of uniformity or steadiness; ADJ. inconsistent: displaying a lack of consistency; erratic; contradictory; incompatible ",
"lacking self-restraint; not continent; licentious ",
"indisputable; impossible to dispute; not open to question; unquestionable ",
"introduce something into a larger whole; include; embody; give material form to; ADJ. ",
"without a material body; insubstantial ",
"uncorrectable ",
"tendency to disbelief ",
"withholding belief; skeptical; showing disbelief ",
"increase ",
"accuse of or implicate in a crime; serve as evidence against; cause to seem or make guilty of a crime; Ex. incriminating evidence ",
"hard coating or crust; V. incrust: encrust; cover with a crust ",
"hatch; warm (eggs) with the body to promote hatching; maintain at optimal environment conditions for development; be holding in one's body an infection which is going to develop into a disease; N. incubation; CF. incubation:disease ",
"burden; very worriying problem; mental care; nightmare; male devil; CF. succubus ",
"teach (ideas or principles); instill ",
"obligatory; imposed as an obligation; currently holding an office; N: person who holds an office ",
"bring upon oneself ",
"temporary invasion; CF. excursion: short journey ",
"irresolution; inability to make up one's mind ",
"marked by indecision; inconclusive; Ex. indecisive battle ",
"tireless; untiring; showing no sign of getting tired ",
"not able to be erased ",
"make secure against damage or loss; compensate for damage or loss; CF. make uninjured ",
"notch; deep recess; V. indent; CF. tooth ",
"bind as servant or apprentice to master; bind by indenture; N: contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified time (as between an apprentice and his master) ",
"uncertain; not clearly fixed; indefinite ",
"suggestive; implying; serving to indicate ",
"signs; indications; Ex. indices of a student's potential; CF. index: something that reveals or indicates; sign; Ex. cost-of-living index ",
"charge; N. indictment ",
"unmoved or unconcerned by; having no interest in; mediocre; neither good nor bad ",
"poverty ",
"native; Ex. plant indigenous to the New World ",
"poor; destitute ",
"anger at an injustice; Ex. righteous indignation; ADJ. indignant ",
"treatment or situation that causes shame or loss of dignity, respect; offensive or insulting treatment; humiliating or degrading treatment; Ex. I suffered the indignity of having to say that in front of them. ",
"choosing at random; confused; not based on careful distinctions ",
"too certain to be disputed; beyond doubt ",
"permanent; impossible to dissolve or disintegrate ",
"write; compose ",
"cause to accept a doctrine without questioning it; Ex. indoctrinated with mindless anti-communism ",
"lazy ",
"unconquerable; unyielding ",
"unable to be doubted; which cannot be doubted; unquestionable ",
"persuade; lead to do something; bring about; N. inducement ",
"place formally in office; install; admit as a member; initiate; N. induction: inducting; process of deriving general principles from particular facts ",
"pertaining to induction or proceeding from the specific to the general ",
"yield to; gratify; allow oneself a special pleasure; Ex. indulge one's every whim/a child/in a big cigarette; N. indulgence ",
"humoring; yielding; lenient; showing indulgence ",
"diligent; hard-working; N. industry ",
"make drunk; intoxicate; N. intoxicated person ",
"habitually intoxicated; drunk; N. inebriety ",
"unutterable; not to be uttered; taboo; that cannot be expressed in speech; indescribable; unspeakable; inexpressible; Ex. ineffable name/joy ",
"not effective; not having a desired effect; weak ",
"irresistible; not to be escaped; unavoidable ",
"unsuited; inappropriate; lacking skill; incompetent; CF. inapt: (of statements or ideas) inappropriate ",
"unfairness; ADJ. inequitable ",
"infallibility ",
"inactive; lacking power to move; unable to move or act; Ex. chemically inert; N. inertia: state of being inert; force which keeps a thing in the position or state ",
"impossible to estimate; (apprec) invaluable; of immeasurable worth ",
"unavoidable ",
"relentless; unyielding; implacable; not capable of being changed by entreaty or efforts; Ex. inexorable price rises ",
"from which it is impossible to get free; that cannot be untied; Ex. inextricable troubles; Ex. inextricable two histories ",
"unerring; never making mistakes ",
"notoriously bad; notorious; well known for being bad; Ex. infamous behavior; N: infamy: infamous act; evil fame or reputation ",
"childish; infantlike ",
"deduce; conclude; N. inference ",
"pertaining to hell; devilish; N. inferno: place of fiery heat or destruction ",
"inhabit in numbers large enough to be harmful; Ex. Mice infested the house; Ex. shark-infested waters ",
"unbeliever (with respect to a particular religion) ",
"pass into or through; penetrate or enter (an organization) sneakily; Ex. infiltrate the troops into enemy territory; CF. infiltrator ",
"very small ",
"weakness ",
"exaggerated; pompous; enlarged (with air or gas) ",
"flowing into ",
"violation (of a rule or regulation); breach ",
"violate (a law); encroach (the right of another person) ",
"marked by inventive skill; clever; resourceful; N. ingenuity ",
"ing'enue; young innocent girl ",
"naive and trusting; young; unsophisticated; candid ",
"deeply established; firmly rooted; Ex. ingrained dirt/prejudice ",
"ungrateful person (not expressing thanks) ",
"become popular with; bring (oneself) in favor of another; Ex. ingratiate himself with the boss ",
"firmly established by nature or habit; intrinsic ",
"restrain; prohibit; retard or prevent; N. inhibition ",
"(of a person) unable to express what one really feels ",
"(of someone) unfriendly; hostile; (of something) harmful; detrimental; CF. enemy ",
"matchless; not able to be imitated ",
"wicked; immoral; unrighteous; N. iniquity; Ex. den of iniquity ",
"begin; originate; receive into a group; introduce to a new field or activity; Ex. initiate someone into the mysteries of a secret religion; N: one who has been initiated ",
"harmful; causing injury ",
"hint; slight indication ",
"inborn ",
"harmless ",
"change; something newly introduced; introduction of something new; V. innovate: begin or introduce (something new); be creative; ADJ. innovative ",
"indirect or subtle (derogatory) hint; insinuation; Ex. sexual innuendo ",
"untimely; inappropriate or ill-timed; poorly chosen ",
"beyond reasonable limits; unrestrained; excessive; Ex. inordinate demands ",
"eager for knowledge; unduly curious ",
"questioner (especially harsh); investigator; person making an inquisition ",
"hostile invasion; advance that lessens the quantity or difficulty of something; Ex. The long illness made serious inroads on his savings; CF. raid ",
"unwholesome; not healthful; Ex. insalubrious place ",
"not easily satisfied; unquenchable; Ex. insatiable appetite ",
"difficult to understand; impenetrable; not readily understood; mysterious ",
"without feeling; lacking sense; foolish ",
"unconscious; unresponsive; insensitive; unaware; imperceptible; Ex. insensible of his danger/to pain; Ex. insensible change; CF. not the opposite of sensible ",
"treacherous; stealthy; sly; working or spreading harmfully in a stealthy manner; Ex. insidious spreading of dry rot ",
"discerning; perceptive ",
"hint; imply; suggest indirectly; creep in; introduce or insert (oneself) by artful means; Ex. insinuate himself into the boss's favor; CF. ingratiate ",
"lacking in flavor; lacking interest; dull; Ex. insipid food/character ",
"impudent disrespect; haughtiness; ADJ. insolent; CF. haughty + rude ",
"bankrupt; lacking money to pay; N. insolvency ",
"wakefulness; inability to sleep ",
"without concern or care; unconcerned; indifferent ",
"start; urge; provoke; incite; Ex. instigate a search/quarrel ",
"organization for a special purpose; V: establish ",
"instituting; (building for the) organization; established custom, practice, or relationship in a society; mental hospital; Ex. institution of marriage ",
"make into an institution; put or confine in an institution ",
"disobedience; rebelliousness; ADJ. insubordinate ",
"lacking substance; insignificant; frail; immaterial ",
"narrow-mindedness; isolation; ADJ. insular: of an island; isolated; narrowminded; CF. peninsula ",
"insurmountable; unbeatable; Ex. insuperable difficulties ",
"rebellious; N. ",
"overwhelming; unbeatable; insuperable ",
"rebellion; uprising ",
"not able to be perceived by touch; vague ",
"complete; necessary for completeness; Ex. integral part ",
"make whole; combine; make into one unit ",
"honesty; uprightness; wholeness; state of being whole and undivided; completeness ",
"higher mental powers; person of great intellectual ability ",
"intellectuals; members of the educated elite (often used derogatorily) ",
"bury; N. interment ",
"prohibit; forbid; N. ",
"meantime; Ex. in the interim; ADJ. taking place during an interim; Ex. interim paper ",
"exclamation; Ex. ``Ouch'' ",
"intruder; one who interferes ",
"intermediate; acting as a mediator; N: mediator; go-between ",
"endless ",
"periodic; on and off; stopping and starting at intervals ",
"mutually destructive ",
"insert between ",
"period between two successive reigns or governments ",
"question closely; cross-examine; cross-question ",
"narrow space between things ",
"come between; interfere; Ex. intervened to prevent a fight; N. intervention ",
"hint; suggest; imply; ADJ: marked by close relationship; familiar; private; personal; Ex. intimate knowledge/thoughts in the diary; N: close friend or confidant; CF. intimacy ",
"frighten; N. intimidation ",
"not willing to accept ways of thinking different from one's own; CF. tolerant; CF. tolerate ",
"make drunk; stimulate or excite; Ex. intoxicated by all the money he might win ",
"unruly; difficult to manage; Ex. intractable problem/child ",
"refusal of any compromise; stubbornness; ADJ. intransigent: uncompromising ",
"fearless ",
"make secret plans; plot; arouse the curiosity of; N: secret scheme; plot; secret love affair ",
"essential; inherent; built-in ",
"looking within oneself; N. introspection: self-examination ",
"one who is introspective or inclined to think more about oneself; ADJ. introverted ",
"put or force in without being asked; trespass; enter as an uninvited person; Ex. intrude one's own opinion into the report; CF. thrust in ",
"immediate insight; power of knowing without reasoning; ADJ. intuitive; V. intuit: know by intuition ",
"flood; overflow; submerge; cover completely; Ex. inundated with work ",
"accustomed; hardened; Ex. inured to the Alaskan cold; V. inure: make used to something undesirable; harden; CF. unfeeling ",
"one incapacitated(disabled) by a chronic illness; ADJ: incapacitated by illness; not valid; null; V: allow to leave (a military force) because of illhealth ",
"weaken; destroy; make invalid; nullify ",
"abuse ",
"denounce; utter censure or invective; Ex. inveigh against the evils of drink ",
"deceive; lead astray by deception; wheedle(cajole); Ex. inveigle her into joining the club; CF. interest dishonestly ",
"opposite ",
"turn upside down or inside out; reverse the position or condition of ",
"deep-rooted; habitual; CF. grow old ",
"designed to create ill will or envy; tending to rouse ill will or envy; Ex. invidious comparison ",
"unconquerable ",
"secure from corruption, attack, or violation(or profanation); unassailable; Ex. inviolable oath/rights; N. inviolability ",
"prayer for help (used in invoking); calling upon as a reference or support; act of invoking ",
"call and bring into use (a right or law); call on/upon (a higher power or god) for help; ask for; beg for; conjure (a spirit); Ex. invoke the veto power; Ex. invoke one's advisor/God ",
"incapable of injury; impossible to damage or injure ",
"very small quantity ",
"irritable; easily angered ",
"angry; CF. ire: anger; wrath ",
"exhibiting rainbowlike colors; Ex. iridescent oil slick; N. iridescence ",
"annoying; tedious; V. irk: annoy ",
"expressing irony; occurring in an unexpected and contrary manner ",
"hidden sarcasm or satire; use of words that seem to mean the opposite of what they actually mean; use of words to convey the opposite of their literal meaning ",
"impossible to reconcile; incompatible; not able to be resolved ",
"indisputable; incontrovertible; undeniable ",
"not applicable; unrelated ",
"incurable; uncorrectable; impossible to remedy ",
"not able to be corrected or repaired; impossible to repair ",
"unable to be restrained or held back; impossible to hold back ",
"beyond reproach; blameless; impeccable; Ex. irreproachable conduct ",
"uncertain how to act; weak; lacking in resolution; indecisive; N. irresolution ",
"impossible to recover or regain; CF. retrieve ",
"lack of proper respect or reverence; ADJ. irreverent ",
"unalterable; irreversible; impossible to revoke ",
"varying from of an element ",
"narrow neck of land connecting two larger bodies of land ",
"wandering; traveling from place to place (to perform work); Ex. itinerant preacher ",
"plan of a trip; record of a trip ",
"poke abruptly with something sharp; punch with short blows ",
"chatter rapidly or unintelligibly ",
"tired or uninterested by surfeit; fatigued; surfeited; worn out; wearied; Ex. jaded appetite ",
"language used by special group; technical terminology; gibberish; nonsensical or incoherent talk ",
"medical condition in which the skin, the white part of the eyes, etc. turn yellow; V: affect with jaundice; affect with prejudice, envy, or hostility; bias ",
"yellowed; prejudiced (envious, hostile, or resentful) from long and disappointing experience of human affairs; Ex. with a jaundiced eye ",
"trip; short journey ",
"cheerful and pleased with life; lighthearted; animated; easy and carefree; dapper in appearance; Ex. jaunty person/hat ",
"endanger; imperil; put at risk; N. jeopardy: danger ",
"playful remark or act; V. act or speak playfully ",
"things thrown from a ship (to lighten the ship) ",
"throw overboard (from a ship or plane) ",
"agree; be in harmony with; gibe ",
"extremely aggressive and militant patriot; warlike chauvinist; N. jingoism: extreme nationalism ",
"given to(having a tendency of) joking ",
"said or done in jest or playfully; marked by joking ",
"merry ",
"gaiety; cheerfulness; ADJ. jolly: merry; gay ",
"shove; bump; push against (someone) rather roughly; Ex. jostled by the crowds ",
"good-natured; merry; cheerful ",
"rejoicing; great joy ",
"judicial branch of government ",
"sound on judgment; wise ",
"pitcher; container for holding liquids ",
"irresistible crushing force; overwhelming advancing force that crushes everything in its path ",
"mix in a confused way ",
"crisis; point in time; joining point; joint; act of joining ",
"trip especially one taken for pleasure by an official at public expense ",
"group of persons joined in political intrigue; cabal; group of military officers ruling a country after seizing power (by force) ",
"of the law and its administration; CF. judicial: of courts of law; CF. judiciary ",
"right and power to apply the law; authority ",
"science of law ",
"place side by side; CF. next ",
"tube in which patterns made by the reflection in mirrors of colored pieces of glass, etc. produce interesting symmetrical effects; series of changing events; Ex. kaleidoscope of European history; CF. beautiful ",
"range of knowledge; Ex. beyond one's ken ",
"central or vital part; core; whole seed (as of corn) ",
"grouch; spoilsport; one who intentionally spoils the pleasure of others ",
"start a fire; ignite; inspire; arouse ",
"related; belonging to the same group; similar in nature or character; Ex. kindred languages; N: relative; kin; kinship ",
"producing motion; of motion ",
"fate; destiny; Ex. Kismet is the Arabic word for fate. ",
"person who has a compulsive desire to steal ",
"special talent; art ",
"untrustworthy person; rogue; scoundrel; jack; N. knavery ",
"mix; work dough; mix and work into a uniform mass (with the hands); Ex. knead dough ",
"go down on one's knee(s) ",
"tolling of a bell especially to indicate a funeral, disaster, etc.; sound of the funeral bell; V. ",
"contract into wrinkles; grow together; join together closely; make (a fabric or garment) by interwining yarn or thread; Ex. knit the brow; Ex. The bones should knit together in a few weeks. ",
"little round hill; hillock ",
"intricate; difficult; tangled; CF. knot ",
"honor; glory; acclaim or praise for exceptional achievement ",
"likely to change; unstable; Ex. emotionally labile; N. lability ",
"demanding much work or care; tedious ",
"maze ",
"cord used to draw and tie together two opposite edges (as of a shoe); delicate fabric made of fine threads; V: draw together by tying a lace ",
"torn ragged wound; V. lacerate: tear (the skin as with broken glass); wound ",
"producing tears; tearful ",
"lacking interest or effort; lacking purpose or zest; lazy; halfhearted; languid ",
"lacking luster(shine; gloss); dull ",
"brief and to the point; using few words; terse ",
"move or develop more slowly; straggle; Ex. lag behind the rest; N. ",
"slow; sluggish; N: one who lags; straggler ",
"shallow body of water or lake near a sea; lake separated from a sea by sandbars or coral reefs ",
"laypersons; laymen; persons not connected with the clergy ",
"grieve; express sorrow; N. lamentation ",
"ridicule; N: written attack ridiculing or satirizing a person, group, or institution ",
"pierce with a lance; cut into; N: spearlike weapon ",
"small surgical tool for making incisions ",
"lacking energy or vitality; weary; sluggish; listless ",
"lose animation or strength ",
"lack of physical or mental energy; lassitude; depression ",
"long and thin; Ex. Lank, gaunt, Abraham Lincoln ",
"take in food or drink with one's tongue; splash gently; Ex. waves lapping the shore; N: front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person ",
"theft; Ex. petit larceny ",
"pantry; place where food is kept ",
"generous gift (given to people who do not have enough) ",
"lustful ",
"languor; weariness; listlessness ",
"fastening or lock consisting of a movable bar that fits into a notch; V: close with a latch ",
"present but not yet noticeable or active; dormant; hidden; N. latency; CF. potential ",
"of or coming from the side ",
"freedom from narrow limitations ",
"praise; N. ADJ. laudable: praiseworthy; ADJ. laudatory: expressing praise ",
"liberal; wasteful; generous or wasteful in giving or using; abundant; profuse; great; Ex. decorated lavishly; V. give in abundance ",
"careless; negligent; not paying enough attention; Ex. lax service ",
"man who is not a cleric; man who is nonprofessional ",
"restraining rope fastened to the collar of an animal (to control it); Ex. a dog on a leash ",
"add leaven to; cause to rise or grow lighter; enliven; N: agent, such as yeast, that causes dough to rise (by fermentation); element that lightens or enlivens ",
"farewell or departure ",
"gross lewdness; lustfulness; ADJ. lecherous; N. lecher: lecherous man ",
"reading desk or stand for a public speaker ",
"(of someone) suspicious; wary; cautious ",
"room to move; margin; latitude; Ex. leeway for the deadline ",
"gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor ",
"(of music) played smoothly ",
"explanatory list of symbols on a map ",
"sleight(dexterity) of hand; CF. light of hand ",
"legislating branch of government; CF. legislate: make laws ",
"mildness; permissiveness; ADJ. lenient: not severe in judgment or punishment ",
"like a lion ",
"deadly ",
"drowsy; dull; N. lethargy: state of sluggishness and inactivity ",
"earthen or stone embankment to prevent flooding; CF. raise ",
"rise and float in the air (especially by magical means); CF. light ",
"lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity; lightness of manner ",
"impose (a fine); collect (a payment); impose or collect (a tax); Ex. levy a tax on tobacco ",
"lustful ",
"compiler of a dictionary; CF. lexicography: work of compiling a dictionary ",
"dictionary ",
"drawback; handicap; debts; obligation; responsibility; condition of being liable; ADJ. liable: likely; responsible (for paying) ",
"contact that keeps parties in communication; communication between groups; one that maintains communication; go-between; secret love affair; V. liaise: keep a connection ",
"defamatory written statement; act of writing something that smears a person's character; V. ADJ. libelous ",
"debauched person; dissolute or licentious person; rou'e; CF. free ",
"lustful ",
"psychic and emotional energy or urges behind human activity; sexual desire ",
"text of an opera or oratorio; CF. book ",
"official or legal permission; latitude of action or speech; excessive freedom that causes harm or damage; V. ",
"amoral; lewd and lascivious; unrestrained ",
"legal claim or right on a property ",
"like wood ",
"extremely small; CF. Lilliput in Gulliver's Travels ",
"flexible; supple; pliable; V. ",
"region near heaven or hell where certain souls are kept; prison (slang); Ex. Purgatory and Limbo ",
"draw; outline; describe; CF. line ? ",
"walk lamely; ADJ: lacking firmness; weak ",
"crystal clear ",
"descent; ancestry ",
"features especially of the face; distinctive shape or contour of the face; CF. line ",
"loiter or dawdle; be slow in leaving; delay going; continue or persist; be slow to disappear; Ex. The smell lingered for days. ",
"pertaining to language ",
"treat (a person) as a celebrity ",
"settle accounts; pay off (a debt); clear up; eliminate; kill or abolish ",
"tilt (as of a ship); lean over (to one side) ",
"lacking in spirit or energy; languid ",
"supplicatory prayer; prayer in which the priest calls out and the people replies in the same words ",
"flexible; supple; CF. limber ",
"lawsuit; N. litigant: one party in a lawsuit; V. litigate ",
"understatement for emphasis; Ex. ``not bad(=pretty good)'' ",
"waste material thrown away (as bits of paper scattered untidily); V: cover untidily with scattered litter ",
"lead-colored; black and blue (as from a bruise); ashen; enraged; extremely angry ",
"reluctant; unwilling; disinclined; Ex. Romeo and Juliet were both loath for him to go. ",
"detest; ADJ. loathsome: arousing loathing; offensive; Ex. loathsome smell ",
"metal-bearing vein(long deposit of an ore) ",
"room or space under the roof; attic ",
"very high ",
"record of a voyage or flight; record of day-to-day activities; section of a trunk; ",
"hang about/around; stand idly about; linger ",
"lounge about ",
"long life; long duration ",
"act of keeping watch; high place commanding a wide view; person who keeps watch ",
"appear or take shape (usually in an enlarged, indistinct, or distorted form); Ex. The shadow of the gallows loomed threateningly. N: apparatus for making thread into cloth ",
"gallop slowly ",
"heavier or larger on one side than the other; Ex. lopsided way of walking ",
"talkative; N. loquacity ",
"object used in making a determination at random; fate; piece of land ",
"contest in which winners are selected in a drawing of lots ",
"stand, sit, or lie in a lazy, relaxed way ",
"clumsy person; ADJ. loutish; CF. from countrysides ? ",
"moo; make the sound of a cow ",
"apply a lubricant to; N. lubricant: substance that reduces friction ",
"easily understood; clear; intelligible; N. lucidity ",
"profitable; producing wealth ",
"money; profit; Ex. filthy lucre ",
"laughable; ridiculous; trifling ",
"mournful; sorrowful ",
"moment of calm; period of reduced activity; Ex. a lull in the rain; V: cause to become less active; cause to sleep or rest; Ex. lull the opponents into a false sense of security; CF. lullaby ",
"move heavily or clumsily; Ex. The bear lumbered through the woods; N: timber ",
"unit of light energy (one candle's worth) ",
"celebrity (in a specific field); dignitary; object that gives light (as a celestial body) ",
"shining (esp. in the dark); issuing light; Ex. luminous paint/road signs ",
"pertaining to the moon ",
"insane; Ex. lunatic asylum ",
"wild; sensational; graphic; gruesome; horrible; Ex. lurid details of the murder ",
"stealthily lie in waiting; slink; exist unperceived ",
"pleasing to taste or smell; delicious ",
"(of a plant or grass) growing very well ",
"intense sexual desire; intense eagerness; V. ",
"shine; gloss (of a polished surface) ",
"shining; brilliant; Ex. lustrous hair ",
"abundant; growing healthily and in large amounts; excessively ornate; rich and splendid; fertile; Ex. luxuriant forests/prose; CF. luxurious, luxuriate ",
"take pleasure in great comfort ",
"gruesome; grisly; ghastly; CF. of death ",
"ceremonial staff used as a symbol of authority; clublike medieval weapon ",
"soften by soaking in liquid; waste away; Ex. macerate powdered wood to make paper ",
"crafty; double-dealing; of the political doctrine of Machiavelli, which holds that craft and deceit are justified in pursuing political power ",
"evil schemes or plots; schemes or plots to achieve an evil end; V. machinate ",
"spotted; stained; CF. immaculate ",
"pastoral song; song for several singers without instruments ",
"violent whirlpool; violent or tublent situation; CF. stream ",
"authoritative; imperious; commanding; of a magistrate; Ex. magisterial study of Roman law; Ex. magisterial manner ",
"official with power to administer the law ",
"generosity; ADJ. magnanimous: generous ",
"person of prominence or influence; powerful or influential person (in business or industry); Ex. oil magnate ",
"boastful; pompous ",
"greatness (in size or extent); extent ",
"mutilate; injure lastingly; disable; cripple; Ex. maimed for life ",
"temporary expedient or substitute (in the case of urgent need); Ex. makeshift shelter ",
"clumsy; not skillful; awkward; bungling ",
"illness ",
"uneasiness; vague feeling of ill health (without any particular pain or appearance of disease) ",
"comic misuse of a word; CF. Mrs. Malaprop ",
"inappropriate; ",
"person dissatisfied with existing state of affairs; discontented person; ADJ: discontented ",
"curse ",
"evildoer; criminal ",
"doing evil; N. maleficience ",
"wishing evil; exhibiting ill will; N. malevolence ",
"wrongdoing; misconduct (by a public official) ",
"hateful; spiteful; expressing malice; N. malice: desire to harm others; spite ",
"speak evil of; bad-mouth(criticize spitefully); defame; ADJ: harmful; Ex. malign influence ",
"tending to cause death; highly injurious; aggressively malevolent; Ex. malignant tumor ",
"one who feigns illness to escape duty; V. malinger: feign illness to avoid work ",
"(of a metal) capable of being shaped by pounding(beating); pliable; (of someone) impressionable(easily influenced); easily controlled; tractable ",
"foul-smelling ",
"vertebrate animal whose female suckles its young ",
"gigantic; enormous ",
"restrain; handcuff; N. ",
"order; charge; authoritative command; power to govern another country; power to given to a government; region under administration; V: give a mandate to; place under a mandate; Ex. mandated territory ",
"obligatory; compulsory; of a mandate ",
"strategic military or naval movement (done for training purposes); carefully planned process; stratagem; V: carry out a military maneuver; use maneuvers in gaining an end ",
"skin disease (esp. of domestic animals) marked by loss of hair ",
"tear or cut to pieces; mutilate or disfigure; Ex. badly mangled bodies ",
"shabby; wretched; suffering from mange; of bad appearance ",
"raging mad; insane; N. maniac: insane person; CF. mania: disorder of the mind; intense enthusiasm ",
"evident; visible; obvious; V: show plainly ",
"outward demonstration; manifesting; indication of the presence of something; Ex. manifestation of his pronounced musical bent ",
"public declaration of principles; statement of policy ",
"many in number or kind; numerous; varied ",
"operate with one's hands; control or play upon (people, forces, etc.) artfully; maneuver; Ex. how to manipulate publicity and men; ADJ. manipulative ",
"affected; not natural; Ex. mannered way of speech ",
"distinctive behavioral trait; affected style in art (according to a set of styles) ",
"loose sleeveless outer garment; cloak; something that covers or envelops; the layer of the earth between the crust and the core ",
"emancipate; free from slavery or bondage ",
"spoil the appearance of ",
"move in search of plunder; Ex. marauding army ",
"border; room; allowance beyond what is needed; Ex. margin of safety ",
"of a margin; barely within a limit; Ex. marginal effect/writing ability ",
"pertaining to marriage ",
"bordering on(adjacent to) the sea; nautical; of the ships or the sea; Ex. Maritime Provinces ",
"noticeable; targeted for vengeance or attack; Ex. marked improvement/man ",
"leave helpless on a deserted island or coast; ADJ. red brown ",
"damaged; disfigured; V. mar: spoil; disfigure ",
"soft fatty tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of blood cells ",
"put in order; guide ceremoniously to the correct place; Ex. marshal the children into the museum; N: military officer; official ",
"one of a family of mammals that nurse their offspring in a pouch(pocket of skin or leather); CF. kangaroo, opossum, wombat ",
"warlike; of war; Ex. martial art/law ",
"strict disciplinarian; person who demands total obedience to rules and orders; CF. Jean Martinet ",
"one who voluntarily suffers death for his or her religion or cause; great sufferer; Ex. martyr to his rheumatism ",
"crush into mash; convert into mash; N: mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl ",
"person who enjoys his own pain; CF. masochism ",
"one who builds or works with stone or brick; N. masonry: work of a mason; stonework or brickwork ",
"wear a mask or disguise; pretend; N: costume party or ball at which masks are worn; pretense; disguise ",
"Christian religious ceremony; CF. Mass: ceremony of the Eucharist ",
"chew ",
"not shiny; matte; having a dull finish; N: flat piece of material used as a floor covering; V. ",
"preoccupation with physical comforts and things; excessive regard for worldly concerns (rather than spiritual matters) ",
"motherly; N. maternity: motherhood ",
"dramatic or musical performance given in the afternoon ",
"woman who rules a family or larger social group ",
"enroll (in college or graduate school); CF. matrix ",
"state of being married ",
"point of origin; array of numbers or algebraic symbols; mold or die; Ex. the matrix of Western civilization ",
"effusively sentimental ",
"handle roughly; batter; injure by beating; Ex. mauled by his overexcited fans; N: heavy long-handled hammer ",
"monumental tomb; large stately tomb; CF. Mausolos ",
"pale purple ",
"rebel; nonconformist (in a group) ",
"mushy(sentimental) and gushy; icky-sticky sentimental; excessively and objectionably sentimental ",
"proverb; truth pithily stated ",
"injury to body; crime of willfully maiming or crippling a person; violent disorder; Ex. mayhem in the zoo; CF. maim ",
"scanty; inadequate ",
"indirect in speech (when something unpleasant must be said); hypocritical; evasive ",
"wind or turn in its course; follow a winding or turning course; move aimlessly and idly ",
"interfering; V. meddle: interfere ",
"settle a dispute through the services of an outsider; act as an intermediary; produce by mediating; Ex. mediate a cease-fire ",
"ordinary; commonplace; neither good nor bad ",
"reflection; thought; V. meditate ",
"element that is a creature's natural environment; nutrient setting in which microorganisms are cultivated; appropriate occupation or means of expression; channel of communication; compromise; middle position between extremes; intervening substan ",
"mixture ",
"submissive; patient and long-suffering ",
"mania for doing grandiose things; mental disorder characterized by delusions of wealth, power, or importance ",
"gloomy; morose; blue; N. ADJ. melancholic; CF. melancholia ",
"fight ",
"(of words or a voice) sweetly or smoothly flowing; melodious; having a pleasant tune ",
"token; reminder of the past; keepsake; Ex. memento of your visit ",
"memoirs; autobiography; biography ",
"something, such as a monument or holiday, intended to honor the memory of a person or event; ADJ: commemorative ",
"commemorate ",
"threat; V: threaten ",
"collection of wild animals on exhibition; zoo ",
"lying; habitually dishonest; N. mendacity ",
"beggar; ADJ: living as a beggar ",
"suitable for servants; lowly; mean; N: someone who does menial work (esp. servant in a house) ",
"counselor; teacher ",
"concerning trade or merchants ",
"motivated solely by money or gain; N. ",
"capricious; quick and changing; fickle; containing the element mercury; Ex. mercurial temper; CF. mood ",
"flashy; tawdry; attractive on the surface but of no real value; Ex. metericious argument/jewel; CF. prostitute ",
"combination (of two business corporations); act of merging ",
"deserve; ADJ. meritorious: deserving reward or praise ",
"hypnotize; N. mesmerism; CF. Franz Mesmer ",
"pertaining to the art of removing metals from ores; N. metallurgy: science that deals with extracting metals from ores ",
"change of form; Ex. metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly; V. metamorphose: change by metamorphosis ",
"implied comparison; CF. simile ",
"pertaining to speculative philosophy; of metaphysics; N. metaphysics: branch of philosophy that examines the nature of reality ",
"measure; distribute; administer; Ex. mete out justice/punishment ",
"like a meteor; swift; momentarily brilliant; Ex. meteoric rise to fame; N. meteor ",
"arrangement of words in the form of poetry (by accentual rhythm) ",
"systematic; N. method: systematic method of procedure ",
"excessively careful (with great attention to detail); painstaking; scrupulous ",
"metric; written in the form of poetry; Ex. metrical translation of Homer ",
"large city ",
"courage (to continue bravely in spite of difficulties); spirit; ADJ. mettlesome ",
"swamp gas; heavy vaporous atmosphere often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence; noxious atmosphere or influence ",
"small representative world; world in miniature; Ex. microcosm of English society ",
"changing its habitat; wandering; Ex. migrant birds/workers; N: one that migrates ",
"wandering; V. migrate: move from one region and settle in another; move periodically from one region to another ",
"social environment; means of expression; Ex. feel out of one's milieu; Ex. His proper milieu is watercolor. ",
"combative; bellicose; N. ",
"work against; Ex. militate against the chances of promotion; CF. serve as a soldier ",
"army composed of ordinary citizens rather than professional soldiers ",
"thousand-year period (as in the New Testament); hoped-for period of happiness and prosperity ",
"pantomime(act without dialogue); mimicry; mimer; V: mimic; pantomime ",
"imitation ",
"menacing; threatening ",
"affectedly dainty(delicate); V. mince: cut (esp. meat) into very small pieces; walk with exaggerated primness; walk in an unnatural way, taking little short steps; Ex. The actor minced across the stage; CF. mincemeat; CF. mincer ",
"mix together in close association ",
"small model; small painting; ADJ: small ",
"servile dependent; obsequious follower ",
"extremely small ",
"extremely small; CF. minutes: official record of the proceedings at a meeting ",
"petty or trivial details; CF. minutia ",
"unreal reflection; optical illusion ",
"entangle; stick in swampy ground; stick or sink in mire; N: bog; deep mud; Ex. sucked deeper into the mire ",
"merriment; laughter ",
"mischance; ill luck; Ex. death by misadventure ",
"one who hates mankind; misanthropist ",
"error; misunderstanding; V. misapprehend ",
"made up of a variety of parts ",
"mixture of writings on various subjects; collection of various items ",
"ill luck ",
"behavior (of children) causing trouble with no serious harm; damage; harm; Ex. mischief to the crops; ADJ. mischievous: causing mischief; playfully troublesome ",
"immoral behavior; bad management; V. ",
"interpret incorrectly; misinterpret; misjudge ",
"wretch; wrongdoer; villain; Ex. kindness to the miscreant; CF. believe ",
"minor crime; misdeed; wrongdoing ",
"stingy; mean ",
"doubts ",
"unfortunate accident ",
"wrong or improper name; incorrect designation ",
"hatred of marriage ",
"hater of woman; CF. misogyny ",
"object to be thrown or projected ",
"letter; written statement; CF. sent ",
"very small object or insect-like creature; small coin ",
"appease; moderate; make or become less in force or intensity ",
"pertaining to memory; assisting the memory; N: device, such as as formula or rhyme, used as a mnemonic aid ",
"movable; not fixed; N. mobility ",
"ridicule; deride; imitate often in derision ",
"prevailing style; current fashion; manner; way of doing something; Ex. in the latest mode; Ex. simple mode of life ",
"limited quantity; small amount; Ex. He does not have a modicum of sense; CF. moderate ",
"fashionable; conforming to the current fashion ",
"tone down in intensity; change the intensity or tone of; regulate; change from one musical key to another; Ex. modulate from E to G",

"powerful person; Ex. oil moguls; CF. Mogol, Moghul; CF. Mongolian ",
"the smallest particle (one or more atoms) of a substance that has all the properties of that substance ",
"soothe an angry person ",
"pamper; coddle; baby; indulge excessively ",
"periodically shed or cast off hairs or feathers (for replacement by a new growth) ",
"melted; Ex. molten lava ",
"very important; N. moment; CF. momentary ",
"quantity of motion of a moving body; impetus; moving force ",
"government under a single ruler ",
"related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns ",
"pertaining to money ",
"plant or animal (esp. a dog) of mixed breed; ADJ. ",
"having only one color ",
"painting in only one color; ADJ. ",
"design composed of one or more initials of a name; V. ",
"scholarly article ",
"solidly uniform; unchangeable; unyielding; N. monolith: large block of stone ",
"belief in one God ",
"sameness leading to boredom; monotonousness; ADJ. monotonous; CF. monotone ",
"massive; impressively large; built as a monument ",
"fits of depression or gloom; ADJ. moody: given to changeable moods; subject to periods of depression; gloomy CF. mood: | state of mind or emotion ",
"legal delay of payment or action; Ex. declare moratorium on the building of new houses ",
"given to unwholesome or unhealthy thought; moody; characteristic of disease; Ex. morbid curiosity; N. morbidity; CF. disease ",
"biting; sarcastic; stinging; (apprec.) incisive; cutting; Ex. mordant pen/wit ",
"conventions; moral standards; moral customs ",
"mortuary; place where bodies are kept before burial or cremation ",
"dying; at the point of death; CF. death ",
"ill-humored; sullen; sullenly melancholy ",
"vessel in which substances are crushed with a pestle ",
"undertaker; CF. death ",
"humiliate by embarassing excessively; shame; punish the flesh; discipline (one's body) by self-denial; Ex. mortified by her blunder; Ex. mortify the flesh; CF. cause to die ",
"picture made of small colorful inlaid tiles; ADJ. ",
"small speck (esp. of dust) ",
"theme; recurrent thematic element in a musical or literary work; single or repeated pattern; figure ",
"ability to move spontaneously; ADJ. motile: moving spontaneously ",
"multi-colored (as of a garment worn by a jester); mixed; heterogeneous; CF. jester: one who jests (as a paid fool at medieval courts) ",
"blotched in coloring; spotted; Ex. mottled face; V. mottle: mark with blotches of different colors ",
"brief statement used to express a principle ",
"charlatan; boastful pretender ",
"confuse; mix up confusedly; N: state of confusion ",
"(of weather) warm and damp ",
"defraud a person of something; swindle; Ex. mulct the boy of his legacy ",
"varied; greatly diversified; Ex. multifarious activities ",
"having many forms ",
"having many languages; fluent in several languages ",
"state of being numerous or multiple; large number; Ex. multiplicity of details; ADJ. multiple: of more than one element ",
"worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday; of the ordinary; Ex. mundane existence; CF. world ",
"very generous in giving; Ex. munificent benefactor; N. munificience ",
"wall painting ",
"dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague; Ex. murky night/fog; N. murk: partial or complete darkness; gloom ",
"low, indistinct, continuous sound; V. CF. mumble ",
"ponder at length; N: source of inspiration (esp. of a poet) ",
"having the odor of musk; N. musk: odorous substance secreted by an Asian deer ",
"gather; assemble (troops); Ex. muster up one's strength for the ordeal; N. ",
"stale (in odor or taste); spoiled by age; CF. moist ",
"ability to change in form; fickleness; ADJ. mutable: able to change; fickle; CF. mutate; CF. mutant ",
"silent; without speech; not pronounced; unable to speak; N: one who is incapable of speech; V: soften the sound, color, shade of ",
"silent; muffled; toned down; Ex. muted traffic noise ",
"maim; injure lastingly; deprive of a limb or an essential part ",
"unruly; rebellious; Ex. mutinous teenagers; N. mutiny: open rebellion; CF. mutineer ",
"utter (complaining words) indistinctly in low tones ",
"nearsighted; lacking foresight; N. myopia ",
"very large number; ADJ. CF. ten thousand ",
"of hidden meaning and spiritual power; Ex. mystic ceremonies; N. CF. mysticism ",
"lowest point; point on the celestial sphere diametrically opposite the zenith ",
"quality of being unsophisticated; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility; ADJ. naive(naive): ingenuous; lacking worldliness; simple; credulous ",
"conceited person; N. narcissism; CF. narcissus ",
"related to telling a story; N: narrated account; story; V. narrate: tell (a story); CF. narration ",
"incipient; coming into being or existence; Ex. nascent ability in music ",
"connected with birth; CF. prenatal; CF. postnatal ",
"swimming ",
"neatly or smartly dressed; dapper; smart; Ex. natty dresser ",
"feeling of sickness and desire to vomit; disgust; CF. seasickness ",
"cause to become sick; fill with disgust; fill nausea ",
"causing nausea; feeling nausea ",
"pertaining to ships or navigation ",
"(of a body of water) wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; (of a ship or aircraft) able to be steered ",
"diffuse mass of interstellar dust or gas; galaxy ",
"vague; hazy; cloudy; of a nebula; Ex. nebulous proposal ",
"black magic; sorcery; dealings with the dead; art that professes to communicate with the spirits of the dead so as to predict the future; CF. necromancer; CF. necro+divination; CF. necro-: death; Ex. necropolis ",
"drink of the gods; sweet liquid collected by bees ",
"very wicked ",
"cancel out; nullify; cause to have no effect; deny; N. negation ",
"neglect; failure to take reasonable care; ADJ. negligent: neglectful; lax; not taking enough care ",
"so small, trifling, or unimportant as to be easily disregarded ",
"someone seeking revenge; source of downfall or ruin; CF. Nemesis ",
"new or newly coined word or phrase ",
"recent convert; new member of a religious group; beginner; CF. plant ",
"favoritism (to a relative); CF. nephew ",
"lower; Ex. nether garments/regions ",
"irritate; annoy; vex; ADJ. nettlesome ",
"connection ",
"beak(bill); pen point ",
"precision; accuracy; minute distinction or difference; Ex. to a nicety: exactly; precisely; Ex. distinguish between niceties ",
"meanly stingy; parsimonious; N. niggard: stingy person ",
"spend too much time on minor points (esp. when finding fault); find fault; Ex. niggle over details; ADJ. niggling ",
"one who considers traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic; revolutionary terrorist; CF. nihilism: belief that nothing has meaning or value; belief that destruction of existing political or social institutio ",
"quick in movement; agile; quick in understanding; Ex. nimble climber/mind ",
"snip off; stop something's growth or development; bite; make numb with cold; Ex. nip the plan; Ex. A guard dog nipped the postman; Ex. fingers nipped by the extreme chill ",
"in Buddhist teachings, the ideal state in which the individual loses himself in the attainment of an impersonal beatitude ",
"done or active at night; Ex. nocturnal animals/raids; CF. nocturne ",
"foul smelling; very unpleasant; unwholesome ",
"wandering; N. nomad: tribe who migrates from place to place ",
"terminology(system of specialized words); system of names or naming things ",
"in name only; of a name; trifling; (of a sum of money) very small; CF. nominate: propose as a candidate; appoint ",
"indifference; lack of concern; composure; ADJ. nonchalant: unconcerned; cool; indifferent; Ex. nonchalant attitude to his debts ",
"neutral; refusing commitment to a particular opinion; unpledged; undecided ",
"undistinctive; ordinary; ordinary-looking; Ex. nondescript fellow in a crowd ",
"person of no importance; nonexistence ",
"put at a loss; bring to a halt by confusion; perplex; CF. no more ",
"speech or writing with no meaning; foolish behavior or language; Ex. make (a) nonsense of: spoil; cause to fail ",
"loop formed in a rope ",
"homesickness; longing for the past; Ex. nostalgia for the clothes of 1920s; ADJ. nostalgic ",
"questionable medicine; quack medicine; CF. our (remedy) ",
"conspicuous; worthy of note; remarkable; important; distinguished; noted ",
"V-shaped cut in a surface; ",
"disrepute; ill fame ",
"provide with food necessary for life and growth ",
"something that nourishes; food ",
"star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then returns to its original brightness ",
"something new; newness; ADJ. novel: new; original ",
"beginner ",
"harmful; CF. obnoxious ",
"shade of slight difference in meaning or color; subtle distinction ",
"marriageable; of marriageable age; CF. connubial ",
"worthless; futile ",
"make invalid; make null; invalidate ",
"person who collects coins; N. numismatics: study or collection of money, coins, and medals ",
"related to marriage or the wedding ceremony; N. nuptials: wedding ceremony ",
"suckle; take care of (as a nurse); bear in mind; Ex. nursing mother; Ex. nurse a hope/grudge against someone ",
"nourish; feed; educate; rear; care for while it is growing or developing; foster; cultivate; N: something that nourishes; rearing ",
"nourishing substance; ADJ: providing nourishment ",
"process of nourishing or being nourished; CF. malnutrition ",
"providing nourishment ",
"stupid awkward person; CF. elf ",
"solemn promise; blasphemous use of sacred words to express strong feelings; swear-word; Ex. ``For Christ's sake'' ",
"crushed oats used for making porridge ",
"stubborn; refusing to change one's belief ",
"bow (to show respect and obedience) ",
"tall column tapering(becoming gradually narrower toward the end) and ending in a pyramid ",
"excessively fat; N. obesity ",
"confuse; muddle; cause confusion; make needlessly complex; make so confused as to be difficult to understand ",
"death notice (esp. in a newspaper); ADJ. ",
"not influenced by emotions; fair; N: goal; aim ",
"binding; required; compulsory; V. oblige: constrain; make grateful; do a favor; accommodate ",
"indirect; slanting (deviating from the perpendicular or from a straight line); Ex. oblique reference ",
"destroy completely; wipe out; Ex. obliterate the village ",
"obscurity; condition of being completely forgotten; forgetfulness ",
"inattentive or unmindful; unaware; wholly absorbed; forgetful(having the habit of forgetting) ",
"slander; disgrace; infamy ",
"offensive; disagreeable; Ex. obnoxious smell ",
"dark; vague; unclear; not well known; Ex. obscure meaning/village; V: darken; cover; make unclear; Ex. obscure the moon/meaning ",
"slavishly attentive; servile; full of servile compliance; sycophantic ",
"funeral ceremony ",
"related to thinking about something constantly; of an obsession; preoccupying; N. obsession: compulsive preoccupation with a fixed idea; compulsive idea; V. obsess: preoccupy the mind of excessively ",
"black volcanic rock ",
"outmoded; no longer used ",
"physician specializing in delivery(assisting in giving birth) of babies; N. obstetrics; CF. midwife ",
"stubborn; hard to control or treat; Ex. obstinate cough; N. obstinacy ",
"boisterous; noisy and uncontrollable ",
"push (oneself or one's ideas) forward or intrude; impose (oneself or one's ideas) on others; butt in; stick out or extrude; thrust out; Ex. obtrude A on B; ADJ. obtrusive; N. obtrusion; CF. unobtrusive ",
"blunt; not sharp; stupid; slow in understanding ",
"make unnecessary; get rid of; Ex. obviate the need ",
"the West ",
"shut; close; obstruct; Ex. A blood clot occluded an artery. ",
"mysterious; secret; supernatural; beyond human comprehension; CF. mysterious to human ?; OP. bare ",
"physician who specializes in treatment of the eyes ",
"chances; probability; disagreement; Ex. The odds are that it will rain. Ex. at odds with ",
"arousing strong dislike; hateful(causing hatred); vile ",
"detestation; quality of being odious; hatefulness; disrepute (resulting from hateful conduct) ",
"giving off an odor ",
"having an odor ",
"long, eventful, adventurous journey ",
"attacking; insulting; distasteful; V. offend: violate; hurt the feelings of; N. offense: offending; violating of a moral or social code; crime; attack; Ex. first offense ",
"casual; done without prior thought or preparation ",
"meddlesome; excessively pushy in offering one's services; overly eager in offering unwanted services or advices; Ex. officious bellboy ",
"look at amorously; make eyes at; Ex. old men ogling young girls ",
"concerning the sense of smell ",
"government by a privileged few ",
"threatening; of an evil omen ",
"all-powerful; having unlimited power ",
"universally present; ubiquitous ",
"all-knowing ",
"eating both plant and animal food; devouring everything ",
"burdensome ",
"words formed in imitation of natural sounds ",
"vicious assault; fierce attack; Ex. unexpected onslaught of the enemy ",
"burden; responsibility ",
"(of a thick liquid) pass or flow slowly; N: mud or thick liquid as at the bottom of a river ",
"iridescent; lustrous; like an opal; N. opalescence ",
"dark; not transparent; N. opacity ",
"medicine to induce sleep or deaden pain; something that relieves emotions or causes inaction; sleep-producing drug containing opium ",
"timely; well-chosen ",
"individual who sacrifices principles for expediency by taking advantage of circumstances; N. opportunism ",
"infamy; disgrace arising from shameful conduct; vilification(slander); scorn; contempt; Ex. opprobrium hurled against him; ADJ. opprobrious: expressing contempt; shameful or infamous ",
"maker and seller of eyeglasses ",
"person who looks on the bright side; N. optimism ",
"most favorable; optimal; N: most favorable condition ",
"not compulsory; left to one's choice; N. option: act of choosing; choice; freedom or power to choose; something available as a choice; Ex. have no option; Ex. two options ",
"one who fits glasses to remedy visual defects ",
"extreme wealth; luxuriousness; abundance; ADJ. opulent: possessing great wealth; abundant ",
"work (esp. musical composition); Ex. magnum opus: masterpiece; CF. opera ",
"of an oracle; prophetic; uttered as if with divine authority; mysterious or ambiguous; hard to understand; N. oracle: wiser person; prophecy made by an oracle ",
"public speaker ",
"dramatic poem set to music; long musical work with singing but without acting; CF. cantata ",
"decree or command; grant holy orders; predestine; install as a minister, priest, or rabbi; N. ordainment; CF. ordination ",
"severe trial or affliction; difficult experience; trial(test of patience or endurance); affliction ",
"decree; authoritative order ",
"ceremony conferring holy orders; ceremony of ordaining a priest ",
"wild drunken revelry; unrestrained indulgence in an activity; Ex. orgy of shopping ",
"get one's bearings; adjust; make familiar with a situation; orientate ",
"act of finding oneself in society; orienting ",
"mouthlike opening; small opening (esp. to a cavern or passage of the body); CF. mouth ",
"excessively or elaborately decorated ",
"scientific student of birds; N. ornithology: scientific study of birds ",
"traditional; (of someone) conservative in belief; adhering to an established doctrine ",
"correct spelling; CF. ortho-: straight; correct; Ex. orthodontics ",
"vibrate pendulumlike; waver ",
"made of bone; bony ",
"change or harden into bone; become hard and unchanging in one's ideas ",
"apparent; appearing as such; professed(pretended); pretended; Ex. ostensible purpose of the expedition ",
"showy; trying to attract attention; pretentious; N. ostentation: showy display ",
"banish from a group; exclude from public favor; ban; Ex. His friends ostracized him. N. ostracism ",
"expel; drive out; force out; N. ouster: ousting ",
"one that has been excluded from a society; ADJ. ",
"clothing or equipment for a special purpose; Ex. cowboy outfit ",
"sociable; eager to mix socially with others ",
"bizzare; peculiar; unconventional ",
"fugitive from the law (excluded from legal protection); V: declare (someone) to be an outlaw; deprive of the protection of the law; declare illegal; Ex. Drinking has been outlawed. ",
"point of view; view from a particular place; expectation for the future; prospect; Ex. outlook on life; Ex. pleasing outlook; Ex. weather outlook ",
"no longer in fashion or use; no longer stylish; old-fashioned ",
"act of extreme violence or viciousness; resentful anger; V: commit an outrage on; produce anger in; ADJ. outrageous: offensive ",
"fringes; outer borders (as of a city); Ex. outskirts of Boston ",
"candid; blunt ",
"outrun; surpass; outdo ",
"outsmart; defeat by behaving more cleverly ",
"enthusiastic applause ",
"bossy; domineering and arrogant; decisively important; Ex. overbearing manner/importance; V. overbear: dominate ",
"inflated; exaggerated ",
"watch over and direct; supervise; N. oversight: unintentional failure to notice or do something; supervision ",
"open to view; public; not secret; CF. covert ",
"topple; ",
"musical introduction to a long musical piece; first offer or proposal (to begin talks in the hope of reaching an agreement); Ex. overtures for peace ",
"turn over; capsize; topple ",
"arrogant; presumptuous ",
"(of water) cover completely; defeat completely by much greater force; Ex. overwhelmed by grief ",
"nervous or excited; extremely agitated; hysterical; wrought-up; CF. wrought: made or done ",
"egg-shaped; CF. ovum; CF. ovulate ",
"thick-skinned animal ",
"one opposed to force; antimilitarist; ADJ. N. pacifism: opposition to war as a means of resolving disputes ",
"soothe; make calm or quiet; subdue; bring peace to ",
"chaplain (in the armed forces) ",
"song of praise or joy; Ex. paeans celebrating the victory ",
"taking pains; showing hard work; taking great care; very careful and through ",
"agreeable; pleasing to the taste ",
"roof of the mouth; sense of the taste ",
"of or suitable for a palace; magnificent ",
"study of prehistoric life or fossils; CF. paleo-: ancient or prehistoric; Ex. paleography: study of ancient written documents ",
"board on which painter mixes pigments(coloring matters) ",
"parchment or piece of writing material used for second time after original writing has been erased ",
"become boring; grow tiresome ",
"small poor bed; Ex. straw pallet ",
"ease pain (without curing); make less severe or offensive (a crime or illness) ",
"pale; wan; Ex. pallid complexion ",
"conceal in the palm of the hand; palm off: pass off; Ex. palm off some bad oranges onto the lady/the painting as a real Renoir ",
"tangible; (of something bad) easily perceptible; obvious; Ex. palpable blunder ",
"throb; beat rapidly; flutter; tremble; Ex. Her heart began to palpitate. ",
"insignificant; petty; trifling; contemptible; Ex. paltry sum; CF. trash ",
"criticize harshly ",
"cure-all; remedy for all diseases ",
"flair; manner of doing things without any difficulty (causing admiration); flamboyance; bunch of feathers (on a helmet); Ex. with great panache; ",
"widespread; affecting the majority of people; N: pandemic disease; CF. all people ",
"wild tumult(commotion); wild noisy disorder; CF. Paradise Lost ",
"cater to (the low desires of others) ",
"formal praise; encomium; Ex. I don't deserve such panegyrics. ",
"sudden sharp feeling of pain ",
"denoting an unobstructed and comprehensive view; N. panorama: unbroken view of a wide area ",
"acting without dialogue; V. ",
"ancient paper made from stem of papyrus plant ",
"short simple story teaching a moral ",
"model; example that serves as a model; pattern; list of all the inflectional forms of a word ",
"something apparently contradictory in nature (that may nonetheless be true); statement that looks false but is actually correct ",
"model of perfection; Ex. paragon of virtue ",
"similar; analogous; corresponding; N: parallel line; person or thing that is parallel (to another); similarity; Ex. know of no parallel to the case; Ex. without parallel; V: be similar to; make parallel; Ex. Your experience parallels mine; CF. unp ",
"state of being parallel; similarity; analogy ",
"limit; independent variable; Ex. parameters of the problem; Ex. within the parameters of the budget ",
"foremost in importance; supreme; CF. para-: beyond; above; Ex. paranormal ",
"illicit lover ",
"psychosis marked by delusions of grandeur or persecution; N: ADJ: paranoid, paranoiac ",
"equipment; odds and ends used in a particular activity; personal belongings; Ex. photographic paraphernalia; CF. married woman's property exclusive of her dowry ",
"restate a passage in one's own words while retaining thought of author; N: restatement of a text in other words ",
"animal or plant living on another; toady; sycophant; CF. para-: beside ",
"extremely dry; very thirsty; V. parch: make or become extremely dry (by exposure to heat) ",
"writing material made from the skin of a sheep or goat ",
"cut away the outer covering or skin of (with a knife); trim; Ex. pare apples/expenses ",
"social outcast; Ex. Mariah the pariah ",
"area in the care of a single priest and served by one main church ",
"equality; close resemblance; CF. disparate ",
"language; manner of speaking; idiom; Ex. in legal/common parlance ",
"conference (between opponents); CF. speak ",
"narrow in scope or outlook; provincial; related to parishes ",
"humorous imitation; spoof; takeoff; travesty; V. ",
"fit or attack of pain, laughter, rage; sudden outburst ",
"floor made of wood strips inlaid in a mosaic like matter; CF. strip: long narrow piece ",
"ward off a blow; deflect; Ex. He parried the unwelcome question very skillfully; N. ",
"stinginess; excessive frugality; ADJ. parsimonious ",
"incomplete; favoring one side over another; having a liking for something ",
"state of being partial; inclination; favorable bias; special fondness; preference ",
"one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party (with dislike of any others); N: strong supporter of a party; guerrilla ",
"divide into parts ",
"upstart; newly rich person ",
"old-fashioned; past the prime ",
"present falsely; represent falsely to be ",
"not active; acted upon; receiving an action without acting in return; accepting without resistance ",
"smooth viscous mixture as of flour(powder made by crushing grain) and water (used as an adhesive); V: cause to adhere by applying paste ",
"imitation of another's style in musical composition or in writing; work of art openly imitating the works of other artists ",
"rural; of rural life; idyllic; of a pastor ",
"paste of flour and water (eaten when baked) ",
"obvious; easily seen; open for the public to read; of or protected by a patent; Ex. patent to everyone; N. ",
"causing sadness, compassion, pity; touching ",
"pertaining to disease; N. pathology: study of disease ",
"tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings; Ex. pathos that runs through the novel ",
"green crust on old bronze works or copper; tone slowly taken by varnished painting ",
"local or provincial dialect ",
"father and ruler of a family or tribe ",
"noble; aristocratic; N: person of high rank; aristocrat; CF. member of the governing classes in ancient Rome; CF. plebian ",
"property inherited from a father ",
"support; act superior toward; treat in a condescending manner; be a customer of; N. patron: one that supports; regular customer; N. patronage; CF. boycott ",
"scarcity; dearth ",
"very poor person ",
"slight offense or fault; CF. sin ",
"pertaining to money ",
"teacher; CF. child leader ",
"teaching; art of education ",
"scholar who overemphasizes book learning, trivial details of learning, or technicalities ",
"bookish; showing off learning; marked by an excessive ostentatious concern for book learning; N. pedantry ",
"travel about selling (wares); CF. foot ",
"support or base as for a pillar or statue ",
"ordinary; dull; unimaginative(lacking in imagination); going on foot; Ex. pedestrian prose; N. ",
"physician specializing in children's diseases; N. pediatrics ",
"ancestry; lineage ",
"one who has equal standing with another; nobleman; V: look intently; N. peerage; CF. peeress ",
"having no equal; incomparable ",
"bad-tempered; irritable; V. peeve: make angry ",
"(of a word or phrase) suggesting that someone is of little value; negative in connotation; having a belittling effect; Ex. Many women now considers ``housewife'' a pejorative expression, because it patronized them. ",
"in confusion; disorderly; Ex. dash pell-mell ",
"transparent; limpid(crystal clear); clear in meaning; easy to understand ",
"fenced enclosure for animals; confining space; Ex. sheep pen; V: confine in a pen; enclose ",
"self-imposed punishment for sin; Ex. do penance for one's sins; CF. penitent ",
"strong inclination; strong liking (esp. for something that is disapproved of by other people); Ex. penchant for fast cars ",
"hanging down from something; pending; N: ornament (hanging from a necklace etc.) ",
"not yet decided or settled; impending; Ex. pending decision; PREP. while awaiting; until; Ex. delay the decision pending his return ",
"hanging; suspended ",
"enter into; pierce; permeate; see through; grasp the inner significance of; understand repentant; ",
"study of prison management and criminal rehabilitation ",
"dreamily or deeply thoughtful; sadly thoughtful; thoughtful with a hint of sadness; contemplative; CF. think over ",
"partial shadow (in an eclipse); CF. almost shadow ",
"extreme poverty; stinginess; ADJ. penurious: very poor; stingy ",
"landless agricultural worker; bond servant; menial worker; N. peonage ",
"insightful; showing a good ability at perceiving and understanding; aware; wise; of perception ",
"striking one object against another sharply; Ex. percussion instrument; N: striking together of two bodies; sound caused by percussion ",
"damnation; complete ruin; hell ",
"journey; V. peregrinate ",
"demanding and leaving no choice; imperative; Ex. peremptory decree/knock ",
"something long-lasting; perennial plant; ADJ: lasting through the year or many years; lasting for a long time; enduring ",
"treacherous; disloyal; N. perfidy: treachery ",
"pierce; put a hole through ",
"done routinely and with little care; superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm; Ex. perfunctory kiss ",
"point of moon's orbit when it is nearest the earth; CF. apogee ",
"outer boundary; length of the outer boundary; circumference ",
"walking about from place to place (to work); moving; Ex. peripatetic school of philosophy ",
"of a periphery; marginal; outer; of minor importance; not central; Ex. peripheral nerve/interest ",
"outside edge especially of a round surface; perimeter; Ex. periphery of the town ",
"false testimony while under oath; V. perjure oneself: testify falsely under oath ",
"that can be permeated; penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass through; V. permeate: spread or flow throughout; charge ",
"allowing much freedom; lenient; Ex. permissive society ",
"very harmful; deadly; very destructive; Ex. pernicious effect/anemia ",
"conclusion of an oration; perorating; V. perorate: conclude a speech; speak at great length ",
"commit an offense; do (something wrong) ",
"everlasting ",
"make perpetual; make something last for a long time; preserve from extinction; N. perpetuity ",
"any gain above stipulated salary; Ex. perquisites such as free meals and a car ",
"continue steadily in spite of difficulties ",
"continue in existence; last; continue in a course of action in spite of opposition; Ex. persist in/with something; ADJ. persistent ",
"attractive (in personality or appearance) ",
"represent (an inanimate object) as a person; be the embodiment or perfect example of; Ex. She is evil/patience personified; N. personification ",
"(of someone) having insight; penetrating; astute ",
"clearness of expression; freedom from ambiguity ",
"(of something) plainly expressed; easy to understand; Ex. perspicuous comments ",
"(esp. of a girl or young woman) impertinent; forward; trim; jaunty; Ex. pert young miss/hat ",
"holding tenaciously to an action; stubborn; persistent ",
"suitable; to the point; relevant ",
"disturb greatly ",
"read through with care; N. perusal ",
"spread throughout; V. pervade: (of smells, ideas, feelings) spread throughout; charge; permeate ",
"purposely continuing to do something wrong; stubbornly wrongheaded; perverted; directed away from what is right; wicked and unacceptable; Ex. perverse satisfaction; Ex. Hannibal Lecter in a perverse mood; N. perversity ",
"corruption; turning from right to wrong ",
"corrupt; turn from right to wrong; misuse; Ex. perverted sexual desire/scientific knowledge; N: person whose sexual behavior is not natural ",
"belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess; tendency to take the gloomiest possible view of a situation; ADJ. pessimistic ",
"causing plague; tending to cause death; baneful; N. pestilence: fatal epidemic disease (esp. bubonic plague) ",
"tool for mashing or grinding substances in a hard bowl or mortar ",
"turn to stone; cause to become stonelike; stun or paralyze ",
"trivial; unimportant; very small; small-minded; petty-minded ",
"touchy; peevish; ill-tempered ",
"formation of infantry carrying overlapping shields and long spears; group of men packed together (for attack or defense) ",
"pertaining to the Pharisees, who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; self-righteous; hypocritical ",
"Pharisee: member of an ancient Jewish group that emphasized strict observance of the Mosaic law (considering themselves very holy); hypocritical self-righteous person ",
"observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation; SG. phenomenon: observable fact; very unusual person, thing, or event; marvel; wonder; CF. phenomenons; ADJ. phenomenal: very unusual; extraordinary; of a phenomenon; Ex. phenomenal strength ",
"faithless lover; flirt ",
"lover of mankind; doer of good; N. philanthropy ",
"stamp-collector; N. philately: stamp collecting ",
"narrow-minded person, uncultured and exclusively interested in material gain; uncultured person who is indifferent to artistic and cultural values; member of an ancient people in Palestine; OP. aesthete ",
"study of language or words ",
"calm and unexcitable; not easily disturbed; CF. phlegm: sticky mucus produced in the respiratory tract ",
"morbid fear ",
"symbol of immortality or rebirth; Ex. phoenix rising from its ashes ",
"major classification, second to kingdom, of plants and animals; category ranking below a kingdom and above a class; division ",
"face (as showing the character and the mind); art of judging human character from facial features ",
"pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms; N. physiology ",
"of different colors; mottled; spotted in different colors (esp. in black and white); Ex. piebald horse; CF. pie+bald ",
"one part at a time; gradually; in stages; Ex. read a novel piecemeal ",
"piebald; variegated(many-colored); multicolored ",
"devoutness; reverence for God; ADJ. pious ",
"coloring matter (usually powder to be mixed with water or oil) ",
"steal things of small value; filch; snitch ",
"plunder ",
"punish by placing in a wooden frame or pillory; subject or expose to criticism and ridicule; N. ",
"squeeze between the thumb and a finger, or other edges; Ex. I had to pinch myself to make sure I wasn't dreaming. N: amount that can be held between the thumb and a finger ",
"long for; yearn; languish from longing or grief; decline ",
"restrain or immobilize by binding the wings or legs; N: bird's wing ",
"small boat ",
"peak; highest point; acme; Ex. pinnacle of fame ",
"devout; religious; N. piety ",
"pleasantly tart-tasting; spicy; pleasantly stimulating; Ex. piquant situation when my old enemy asked for my help ",
"irritation; resentment from wounded pride (eg. loss in a contest); V: provoke; arouse; annoy; cause to feel resentment; Ex. pique her curiosity ",
"pertaining to fishing; CF. Pisces ",
"hidden danger; concealed trap ",
"core or marrow; spongelike substance in the center of stems; essence; substance ",
"concise and meaningful; substantial; meaty ",
"small amount (of money); small allowance or wage ",
"of a pivot; central; critical; crucial ",
"pacify; bring peace to; conciliate; appease ",
"harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill ",
"peaceful; calm; Ex. placid child/lake ",
"steal another's ideas or writings and pass them off as one's own; Ex. ideas plagiarized from my article; N. plagiarism; CF. kidnap ",
"expressing sorrow; mournful; Ex. plaintive song ",
"braid; interwine; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; Ex. plaited hair; N: braided length as of hair o fabric; CF. pigtail, ponytail ",
"carpenter's tool for smoothing and leveling wood; V. CF. flat ",
"paste that hardens to a smooth solid and is used for coating walls; V. ",
"ability to be molded; ADJ. plastic: capable of being shaped or molded; Ex. plastic material such as clay ",
"trite remark; commonplace statement; ADJ. platitudinous ",
"purely spiritual; theoretical; without sensual desire ",
"praise; enthusiastic approval; round(succession or series) of applause; ADJ. plauditory; CF. applaud ",
"conceivably true; having a show of truth but open to doubt; specious ",
"common; vulgar; pertaining to the common people; N: common people in ancient Rome; CF. patrician ",
"direct vote by the entire electorate (on an important issue) ",
"(of power) complete; full; fully attended by all qualified members; Ex. plenary power ",
"abundance; plenty; great amount; completeness; fullness; CF. plenary, plenty ",
"excess; overabundance; Ex. a plethora of excuses ",
"flexible; easily influenced; yielding; adaptable ",
"flexible; easily influenced ",
"difficult condition; condition or state (esp. a bad state or condition); predicament ",
"strategem to gain an advantage; tactic; Ex. management ploy ",
"courage; V: pull off or out; pull out the hair or feathers of; ADJ. plucky: courageous; brave ",
"feathers of a bird; ",
"exactly vertical; N: weight on the end of a line; V: examine very carefully or critically in order to understand; measure depth (by sounding); Ex. plumb the depth of ",
"one who installs and repairs pipes and plumbing(pipes) ",
"feather, esp. large or showy one; something that rises into the air (like the shape of a feather); Ex. plume of smoke: 滚几 备抚 ",
"fall sharply; fall straight down; Ex. Stock prices plummeted. ",
"pleasantly fat; nicely rounded ",
"society ruled by the wealthy ",
"doctor who treats ailments of the feet; chiropodist; N. podiatrics ",
"pedestal; raised platform ",
"quality of being deeply moving; keenness of emotion; ADJ. poignant: touching; deeply moving; (of sorrow, grief, etc.) painful; keenly distressing to the mind; Ex. poignant memory/anxiety; CF. prick ",
"good judgment with composure; balance; V: place in a carefully balanced position ",
"of a pole; characterized by opposite extremes; Ex. polar opposites ",
"state of having two opposite qualities ",
"split into opposite extremes or camps ",
"attack or defense of an opinion; controversy or refutation; argument in support of point of view; N. polemics: art of debate or controversy ",
"aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious (rather than simply expressing opinions) ",
"prudent; judicious; well judged; expedient; well devised ",
"(particular form of) political organization; form of government of nation or state; Ex. student polity ",
"one who has more than one spouse at a time; CF. bigamy; CF. polyandry ",
"speaking several languages; multilingual; Ex. polyglot person/society; ",
"self-important behavior; acting like a stuffed shirt(pompous person); ADJ. pompous: self-important ",
"having great weight; weighty; unwieldy; lacking lightness; dull; Ex. ponderous body/style of writing ",
"pertaining to a bishop or pope; pompous or pretentious; CF. pontiff: pope; bishop ",
"study industriously; ponder; scrutinize; Ex. pore over the book; N. ",
"full of pores; like a sieve ",
"soft food made by boiling oatmeal ",
"foretell; presage; be a sign or warning of; N. portent: sign; omen; forewarning ",
"stout; corpulent ",
"assume a particular posture; put forward; present; affect a particular attitude (to impress others); Ex. pose a threat; N. ",
"person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant, etc., to impress others; person who poses; CF. pose ",
"descendants; future generations; Ex. go down to posterity; CF. posterior, anterior ",
"after death (as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death); coming or occurring after one's death; Ex. posthumous fame/novel ",
"autopsy; ADJ: occurring after death; of a postmortem ",
"self-evident truth; something assumed without proof; V: assume the truth of (as a basis of an argument) ",
"assume an affected pose; act artificially; N: pose; attitude ",
"suitable for drinking; drinkable ",
"powerful; convincing; persuasive; greatly influential ",
"monarch; sovereign ",
"expressing possibility; latent; N: capacity for growth ",
"dose (of liquids); liquid dose ",
"heterogeneous mixture; medley; mixture of dried flower petals a pot (to give a pleasant smell to a room) ",
"soothing application applied to sore and inflamed portions of the body ",
"abstract; concise summing up of main points; concise summary of a text ",
"feasible ",
"based on experience; of or acquired through practice (rather than theory); useful; Ex. practical man ",
"practical (as opposed to idealistic); concerned with practical worth or impact of something; Ex. pragmatic test of the skill ",
"practical person; N. pragmatism: pragmatic way of dealing with things ",
"move about in a spirited manner (proudly and confidently) ",
"mischievous trick ",
"talk idly; speak foolishly; boast idly ",
"talk idly; babble; N. CF. prate ",
"introductory statement ",
"unsafe; lacking in stability; uncertain; risky; Ex. precarious living ",
"preceding (in time, rank, etc.) ",
"practical rule guiding conduct; Ex. mother's precept ",
"division of a city for election or police purposes; precincts: space that surrounds a building; Ex. precincts of the college ",
"cliff; dangerous position; Ex. on the edge of the precipice ",
"something that causes a substance in a chemical solution to separate out in solid form; OP. solvent ",
"hurl downward; throw headlong; hasten; cause to happen sooner; condense and fall as rain or snow; cause (a solid substance) to be separated from a solution; ADJ. hasty; rash; premature; sudden ",
"steep; overhasty; precipitate ",
"exact ",
"make impossible; prevent; exclude; eliminate ",
"advanced in development; N. precocity ",
"forerunner; predecessor ",
"predatory animal or bird; predatory person; creature that seizes and devours another animal; person who robs or exploits others; ADJ. predatory: living by preying on other organisms; plundering; N. predation ",
"former occupant of a post ",
"determine in advance; predestine; settle or decide beforehand; influence markedly ",
"difficult situation; tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma ",
"preference; partiality ",
"give an inclination toward (in advance); make susceptible to; Ex. predispose people to certain cancer; N. predisposition ",
"outstanding; superior ",
"prevent in advance; head off(forestall); forestall by acting first; appropriate for oneself before others; supplant; take the place of; displace; Ex. preempt any attempts; ADJ. preemptive ",
"make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction or pride; (of a bird) smooth or clean (feathers) with the beak; Ex. preen oneself on; CF. prune ",
"introductory; of a preface ",
"be a sign of; foreshadow ",
"capable of grasping or holding (esp. by wrapping around); Ex. prehensile tails ",
"church dignitary; priest of high position in the church (esp. bishop) ",
"introduction; introductory performance or event; forerunner ",
"plan in advance; Ex. premeditated murder ",
"assumption; postulate; proposition upon which an argument is based ",
"forewarning; presentiment; foreboding ",
"serving to warn ",
"superiority of power, quantity, etc.; V. preponderate: be greater in power, weight, or importance; ADJ. preponderant ",
"attractive; CF. preoccupying ? ",
"absurd; completely unreasonable; ridiculous ",
"privilege; unquestionable right; CF. ask before ",
"foretell; be a warning or sign of; N: presentiment; foreboding; omen ",
"ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions before they occur; ADJ. prescient ",
"premonition; foreboding; feeling something will happen; anticipatory fear ",
"respect or admiration; impression produced by achievements or reputation; ADJ: causing admiration; ADJ. prestigious: having prestige ",
"take for granted; assume; act overconfidently; take liberties; presume on/upon: take unfair advantage of (someone's kindness or connection); N. presumption ",
"going beyond what is right; excessively forward; arrogant; taking liberties ",
"feign; pretend to: claim to possess; make pretensions to; Ex. I don't pretend to much expertise; N. pretense ",
"pretentiousness; claim (without foundation); Ex. I make no pretensions to skill as an artist. ",
"ostentatious; showy; pompous; making unjustified claims; overambitious; Ex. pretentious films that claim to be art ",
"beyond what is normal in nature; supernatural; Ex. preternatural strength/forces ",
"excuse ",
"be widespread; triumph over; gain victory; prevail on: persuade; induce; Ex. Justice has prevailed; Ex. prevail on someone to do something ",
"widespread; generally accepted ",
"lie; hide the truth (by equivocating) ",
"target of a hunt; victim; V: hunt and eat as prey; victimize; Ex. Cats prey on mice. ",
"proper to the point of affectation; very precise and formal; exceedingly proper ",
"first in rank or importance; being first in time; original; Ex. man's primal innocence ",
"first in rank or importance; principal; earliest in time; Ex. primary stages; N. CF. first ",
"group of mammals including humans ",
"period of ideal or peak condition; earliest or beginning stage; Ex. in the prime of life; Ex. prime of the year(spring); ADJ: first in importance or rank; first; V: make ready; prepare ",
"seniority by birth; state of being the first-born child; right of the eldest child (to inherit the entire property of one or both parents) ",
"existing at the beginning (of time); rudimentary ",
"groom oneself with care; adorn oneself ",
"unspoiled; remaining in a pure state; characteristic of earlier times; primitive; Ex. an old book in pristine condition ",
"lack of the basic necessities or comforts of life; hardship; want; CF. deprive ",
"secret; hidden; not public; made a participant in something secret; Ex. privy chamber government; Ex. be privy to a discussion; CF. private ",
"pry; move with a lever; value highly; esteem; Ex. his most prized possession; N: something captured during war-time (esp. an enemy ship) ",
"explore with a probe or tools; investigate; N: slender instrument used to explore a wound or body cavity; device designed to investigate an unknown region; thorough investigation; Ex. space probe ",
"uprightness; honesty; incorruptibility ",
"causing a problem; open to doubt; doubtful; unsettled; questionable; Ex. Whether the arena will ever be completed is problematic. ",
"inclination; natural tendency (esp. towards something bad) ",
"postpone; delay or put off ",
"obtaining; V. procure: obtain by effort; obtain (a prostitute) for another ",
"poke (with a pointed object); stir up; urge; goad to action; N: pointed object used to prod; prodding ",
"wasteful; reckless with money; profuse; Ex. a mind prodigal of ideas; N. prodigality ",
"enormous; marvelous; extraordinary; Ex. prodigious amount/memory ",
"highly gifted child; person with exceptional talents; marvel; wonder ",
"violate; desecrate (something holy); treat unworthily; be profane for; ADJ: secular; nonreligious; irreverent for holy things ",
"wasteful (of money); dissipated; wildly immoral; dissolute; N: profligate person; N. profligacy ",
"deep; not superficial; complete; Ex. profound thinker/remark/silence/deafness; N. profundity ",
"great amount; plenty; overabundance; excess; lavish expenditure; Ex. profusion of choices; ADJ. profuse: plentiful; copious; giving or given abundantly; extravagant ",
"ancestor ",
"children; offspring; descendants ",
"forecasted course of a disease; prediction; CF. prognostic ",
"predict (according to present indications) ",
"so high as to prohibit purchase or use; tending to prevent the purchase or use of something; prohibiting; inclined to prevent or forbid; Ex. prohibitive tax ",
"missile; fired or thrown object (such as stone or bullet) ",
"member of the working class; blue collar guy; N. proletariat: working class (who have to work for wages) ",
"grow rapidly (in numbers); spread; multiply; N. proliferation ",
"producing offspring or fruit in abundance; fertile; fecund; abundantly fruitful; producing abundant works; Ex. prolific writer ",
"tedious wordiness; verbosity; ADJ. prolix: wordy; verbose; diffuse ",
"introduction (to a poem or play) ",
"lengthen; extend; draw out ",
"protruding(sticking out); conspicuous; notable; eminent ",
"mixed indiscriminately; indiscriminate; not choosing carefully; indiscriminate in the choice of sexual partners; irregular, particularly sexually; Ex. promiscuous life/girl; N. promiscuity ",
"headland ",
"advance in rank; advance; help to flourish; advocate; help actively in forming; publicize or popularize; Ex. Milk promotes health; Ex. promote a match/bill; Ex. promote a new product ",
"cause; urge; provoke; provide a cue (for an actor); ADJ: done without delay; done at the right time; punctual; on time; N: reminder or cue ",
"announce; proclaim a doctrine or law; make known by official publication ",
"inclined to; likely to (suffer); prostrate; lying with the front downward; Ex. prone to disease/make mistakes; Ex. accident-prone ",
"pointed projecting part ",
"distinct; very noticeable; Ex. pronounced limp ",
"support placed under or against something; V. ",
"increase in number by producing young; multiply; spread; Ex. Most plants propagate by seed; Ex. newspaper propagating their ideas ",
"substance which propels or drives forward (such as an explosive charge or a rocket fuel) ",
"natural inclination ",
"of a prophet or prophecy; having to do with predicting the future; N. prophecy; V. prophesy; N. prophet ",
"used to prevent disease; N: something prophylactic; condom; N. prophylaxis: prevention of disease ",
"nearness (in space or relationship); proximity; kinship ",
"appease; conciliate; make peaceful; ADJ. propitiatory ",
"favorable; auspicious; advantageous; fortunate; Ex. propitious day/sign ",
"supporter; backer; opposite of opponent ",
"put forth for consideration or analysis; set forth; Ex. propound a problem/theory ",
"fitness; quality of being proper; correct conduct; conformity to prevailing customs and usages; CF. proprietor, proprietary ",
"driving forward; N. propulsion ",
"lacking in imagination; dull and unimaginative; matter-offact(concerned with facts, not imagination or feelings); factual; CF. prose ",
"part of stage in front of curtain; front arch of a stage ",
"prohibit; ostracize; banish; outlaw ",
"(induce someone to) convert to a religion or belief; N. proselyte: new convert to a doctrine or religion ",
"art of versification; study of the metrical structure of verse ",
"become successful (esp. financially); thrive; grow well; Ex. children prospering under his care ",
"good fortune and financial success; physical well-being ",
"successful; rich; affluent; well-to-do; well-off ",
"stretch out full on ground; make prostrate; enervate; Ex. prostrating illness; ADJ: lying face down; having lost all strength ",
"person receiving protection and support from a patron ",
"leader or noticeable supporter of an idea; chief character in a play or story ",
"able to take on many forms; versatile; CF. Proteus: sea god to change his shape at will ",
"diplomatic etiquette; ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats; first copy of a treaty before its ratification; Ex. Protocol demands that the queen meet him at the airport. ",
"original work used as a model by others ",
"prolong; lengthen in time; draw out ",
"stick out; jut; project; Ex. protruding teeth ",
"protrusion; swelling; bulge ",
"place of origin; origin or source of something; Ex. Gunpowder is of Chinese provenance; CF. come ",
"dry food for livestock; fodder ",
"adage; someone or something well known for notoriety; ADJ. proverbial: of a proverb; widely known; ADV. proverbially ",
"quality of being provident; divine care; god's care; Providence: god; Ex. It seemed like providence that the doctor happened to be there; ADJ. providential: of divine providence; fortunate ",
"providing for future needs; displaying foresight; thrifty; preparing for emergencies; OP. improvident ",
"pertaining to a province; limited in outlook; narrow; unsophisticated ",
"act of providing; something provided; preparatory measure; provisions: necessary supplies (esp. food); stipulation; condition in an agreement; Ex. According to the provisions of the agreement ",
"tentative; temporary ",
"stipulation; condition in an agreement; provision ",
"arousing anger or sexual interest; annoying; Ex. provocative in tight jeans; V. provoke: incite to anger; cause (an unpleasant action or feeling); N. provocation ",
"extraordinary ability; military bravery; Ex. prowess in battle ",
"nearness; ADJ. proximate ",
"authorized agent; authority to act for another ",
"excessively modest or proper person (who is easily shocked by improper things, esp. of a sexual nature); N. prudery; ADJ. prudish: excessively concerned with propriety ",
"cautious; careful; prudential ",
"cut away; trim ",
"having or causing lustful desires and thoughts; arousing immoderate sexual desire ",
"inquire impertinently (someone else's private affairs); use leverage to raise or open something; prize; N. pries: tool for prying ",
"pen name; fictitious name assumed by an author; ADJ. pseudonymous ",
"soul; mind ",
"doctor who treats mental diseases ",
"of psyche; mental; of or possessing extraordinary mental powers ",
"pertaining to mental dearrangement; N. psychopath: person with an antisocial personality disorder ",
"mental disorder; ADJ. N. psychotic ",
"of the influence of the mind on the body (esp. with respect to disease) ",
"extinct flying reptile; CF. wing+finger ",
"gather into wrinkles or folds; N: wrinkle or fold ",
"hot sweet dish ",
"childish; immature; CF. puer: boy ",
"boxer; CF. pugilism: boxing ",
"combativeness; disposition to fight; ADJ. pugnacious: (of people) belligerent; combative in nature ",
"powerful; strong; potent; N. puissance: power ",
"beauty; comeliness; ADJ. pulchritudinous ",
"pertaining to the lungs ",
"raised platform used in preaching (in a church) ",
"throb; beat regularly; vibrate regularly ",
"rhythmical throbbing of arteries; brief sudden change in a normally constant quantity; V: pulsate ",
"crush or grind into very small particles ",
"pommel; beat or pound with fists ",
"minutely attentive (perhaps too much so) to fine points; stressing niceties of conduct or form; N. punctilio, punctiliousness: careful attention payed to every small exact detail ",
"authority on a subject; expert; learned person ",
"stinging; acrid; sharp in taste or smell; (of speech or writing) caustic; N. pungency ",
"punishing; Ex. punitive measures ",
"tiny; weak; insignificant ",
"secure grasp or hold; firm grasp or footing ",
"place of spiritual expiation; temporary state or place in which the souls must expiate their sins ",
"remove or get rid of something or someone unwanted; eliminate; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify (esp. of sin, guilt, or defilement); N. ",
"intention; purpose; meaning; V: claim; profess; Ex. order which purports to be signed by the general ",
"alleged; claimed; reputed or rumored; Ex. purported Satanists ",
"pucker; contract (lips) into wrinkles; N: wallet ",
"furnisher of foodstuffs; caterer; V. purvey: supply (eg. food); furnish; CF. provide ",
"disagreeably aggressive ",
"cowardly; lacking courage; fainthearted ",
"supposed; reputed; generally regarded as such; Ex. putative father of the child ",
"make or become putrid; N. putrefaction ",
"becoming putrid; putrefying ",
"decayed and foul-smelling; foul; rotten; decayed; N. putridity ",
"baffle or confuse by a difficult problem; ponder over a problem in an effort to solve; clarify or solve by reasoning; Ex. puzzle out the answer; ",
"person with an insane desire to set things on fire ",
"charlatan; impostor ",
"four-footed animal; ADJ. CF. biped ",
"drink with zest; drink with relish(zest; hearty enjoyment); CF. sip ",
"bog; marsh; soft, wet, boggy land; predicament; complex or dangerous situation from which it is difficult to free oneself ",
"cower; shrink back in fear; lose heart ",
"odd in an old-fashioned way; odd; old-fashioned; picturesque ",
"limited; restricted; V. qualify: limit the meaning of; modify ",
"reach a necessary standard; limit the meaning of something stated ",
"uneasy feelings; misgivings; uneasy fears especially about matters of conscience; Ex. I have no qualms about giving this assignment to Helen. ",
"dilemma; state of uncertainty; Ex. She is in a quandary about whether to go. ",
"isolation of a person, place, or ship to prevent spread of infection; V: isolate in quarantine ",
"dig into (to get stone); N: mine; ",
"crush; suppress; squash; subdue; annul; Ex. quash a rebellion/the decision of the low court ",
"dock; wharf; pier; landing place (for boats) ",
"experiencing nausea; nauseated; easily nauseated; squeamish; Ex. feel a little queasy ",
"strange; eccentric; deviating from the normal ",
"suppress; put an end to; put down forcibly; extinguish; quiet; Ex. ``Army Quells Rebellion'' in newspaper; CF. kill ",
"assuage or satisfy (thrust); slake; douse or extinguish; put out; suppress ",
"given to complaining; complaining; fretful; whining ",
"inquiry; question; V. ",
"line (of waiting people or vehicles) ",
"minor objection or complaint; V: raise minor objections; carp; cavil ",
"mercury ",
"dormant; temporarily inactive; at rest; N. quiescence ",
"tranquillity; calmness ",
"purest and highest embodiment; perfect example; apotheosis; most essential element; Ex. quintessence of wit; ADJ. quintessential; CF. fifth essence ",
"taunt; clever sarcastic remark; V. ",
"sudden sharp turn or twist; startling twist; caprice; idiosyncrasy; peculiarity of behavior; Ex. by a quirk of fate ",
"traitor who aids invaders; CF. Vidkun Quisling ",
"tremble; shake; N. ",
"idealistic but impractical; CF. Don Quixote ",
"curious; suggesting puzzlement (without saying); questioning; teasing; mocking; bantering; Ex. quizzical glance ",
"minimal number of members necessary to conduct a meeting ",
"daily; commonplace; customary; Ex. quotidian routine ",
"mob; noisy crowd ",
"of or suffering rabies; like a fanatic; extremely zealous; furious; CF. rabies: hydrophobia ",
"disease passed on by the bite of an infected animal (causing madness and death) ",
"story-teller; one who tells stories with wit and skill ",
"lottery; V: award as a prize in a raffle; Ex. raffle off a new car ",
"scrap of cloth; ADJ. ragged: old and torn; seeming unfinished and imperfect; Ex. ragged debut/performance ",
"dirty child in torn clothes; person wearing tattered clothes ",
"complain bitterly; scold; rant; Ex. the weaker railing against injustices ",
"clothing; garments; Ex. I have no raiment fit to wear. ",
"immoral or dissolute person ",
"jaunty; stylish; sporty; morally corrupt; dissolute; Ex. He wore his hat at a rakish and jaunty angle. ",
"come or bring together; call up or summon (forces, vital powers, etc.); revive or recuperate (after illness or difficulty); N: act of rallying; mass gathering ",
"male sheep; V. strike or drive against with a heavy impact ",
"wander aimlessly (physically or mentally); digress ",
"branching out; subdivision; one branch of a system; one of the results following from an action or decision; Ex. ramifications of a business/the decision ",
"branch out; divide into branches or subdivisions ",
"slope; inclined plane or roadway (connecting two levels) ",
"growing or spreading uncontrollably; growing in profusion; unrestrained; Ex. rampant lawlessness/weed ",
"defensive mound of earth ",
"(of a building or vehicle) poorly constructed; rickety; falling apart ",
"having the odor of stale or decomposing fat; rank ",
"long-lasting hatred; bitterness; Ex. negotiation without rancor; ADJ. rancorous ",
"without definite purpose, plan, or aim; haphazard; Ex. random shots; Ex. chosen at random ",
"offensive in odor or flavor ",
"irritate; fester; annoy ",
"search thoroughly; pillage (going through a place); Ex. Enemy soldiers ransacked the town. ",
"speak violently or excitedly; rave; talk excitedly showing anger; scold; make a grandiloquent speech; Ex. The priest ranted about the devil. ",
"voracious; ravenous; taking everything one can; excessively grasping; plundering; subsisting on live prey; Ex. rapacious birds ",
"close relationship; emotional closeness; harmony ",
"engrossed; absorbed; enchanted; Ex. rapt listener ",
"great joy and delight; ecstasy; ADJ. rapturous ",
"(of air) thin in density; rarefied; Ex. rare air of the mountains ",
"made less dense (of a gas); V. rarefy: make less dense; N. rarefaction ",
"(of a sound) grate on (eg. nerves); make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; rub with something rough; Ex. The cat's tongue rasped my hand. ",
"making a harsh noise; grating; harsh ",
"approve formally; confirm; verify ",
"reasoning; act of drawing conclusions from premises; V. ratiocinate: reason logically ",
"fixed portion; V: distribute as rations ",
"(of a person) having reason; (of ideas) based on reason; logical ",
"fundamental reason or principle (on which a system or principle is based); fundamental reason or justification; grounds for an action ",
"make rational; devise false reasons for (one's behavior); offer an excuse; give a plausible reason for an action in place of a true, less admirable ones; N. rationalization ",
"(of voice) harsh and unpleasant; (of people) disorderly and boisterous; Ex. raucous shouts ",
"devastate; plunder; despoil; Ex. crops ravaged by storms ",
"overwhelmingly favorable review; V: talk wildly as if mad; Ex. raving lunatic ",
"fall apart into tangles; entangle; unravel or untwist ",
"extremely hungry; voracious ",
"narrow valley with steep sides; gorge; CF. gully, canyon ",
"destroy completely; Ex. raze the city to the ground ",
"strongly opposed to social or political change; opposing progress; politically ultraconservative; N. OP. radical ",
"kingdom; field or sphere; Ex. not within the realms of possibility ",
"one who harvests grain; Ex. the Grim Reaper; V. reap: cut and gather (crop); harvest a crop",
"return of part of a payment; discount; V. ",
"reject bluntly; snub; beat back; Ex. She rebuffed his invitation; N. ",
"scold harshly; criticize severely ",
"representation of words in the form of pictures or symbols; puzzle in which pictures or letters stand for words; Ex. ``R U 18'' is a rebus for ``Are you 18''. ",
"refutation; response with contrary evidence; V. rebut: refute; disprove ",
"disobedient or resisting authority even after being punished; obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly; Ex. recalcitrant child ",
"disclaim or disavow; retract a previous statement; openly confess error; Ex. recant one's faith/a statement ",
"summarize ",
"reconstruct (a sentence, story, statue, etc.); fashion again ",
"quick or willing to receive (ideas, suggestions, etc.); Ex. receptive to the proposal ",
"pause; temporary cessation; alcove; secret inner place; Ex. parliament in recess; V. CF. recessive ",
"withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity ",
"habitual return to crime (even after being punished); N. recidivist ",
"receiver ",
"mutual; given and received in return; exchangeable; interacting; Ex. reciprocal trade agreement ",
"do or give something in return; repay in kind; give or take mutually; interchange; move ",
"act of reciting publicly; detailed account; performance of music or dance (by a solo performer) ",
"repeat aloud (something learned); describe; Ex. recite his complaints; N. recitation ",
"count; calculate; regard as; think; suppose ",
"lie down ",
"hermit; loner; ADJ. reclusive ",
"make friendly again (after quarrel); make consistent (two ideas in opposition); correct inconsistencies; Ex. reconcile one's political principles with one's religious beliefs ",
"abstruse; not easily understood; profound; secret ",
"survey of enemy by soldiers; reconnoitering; V. reconnoiter: make a preliminary inspection of (esp. to gather military information) ",
"narrate or tell (a story); count over again ",
"resorting to help when in trouble; Ex. without recourse to ",
"disloyal; cowardly; N: disloyal and cowardly person ",
"countercharges; V. recriminate ",
"set right; correct; CF. rect-: right ",
"moral correctness; moral uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment ",
"reclining; lying down completely or in part ",
"recover; return to health; regain; Ex. recuperate losses ",
"occurring again and again ",
"odorous; fragrant; suggestive (of an odor); Ex. redolent of onions/mystery ",
"formidable; causing fear ",
"remedy; compensation; Ex. seek redress for the damage to your car; V: put right; remedy or rectify (a wrong); make amends for ",
"diminish; bring to a weaker or more difficult condition; demote; lower in rank; separate into components by analysis; Ex. reduced to the ranks; Ex. reduce the house to rubble; N. reduction ",
"superfluous; more than is necessary; verbose; excessively wordy; repetitious ",
"emit (an unpleasant odor or smoke); give off an unpleasant odor; give out smoke; Ex. reeking chimney; N: unpleasant odor; stench ",
"dining hall; room where meals are served (in a school) ",
"direct vote by all the people ",
"bending of a ray of light ",
"unmanageable; disobedient and stubborn; Ex. refractory horse ",
"abstain from; resist; forbear; N: chorus ",
"effulgent; brilliant; brightly shining; gleaming; Ex. refulgent moon ",
"renovate; make clean, bright, or fresh (make new) again; make bright by polishing; Ex. refurbish an old theater; CF. furbish: polish ",
"anything discarded or rejected as worthless; trash ",
"disprove; prove to be false; N. refutation ",
"royal; of a monarch; Ex. regal manner ",
"entertain ",
"boat or yacht race ",
"spiritual rebirth; Ex. regeneration of the prisoners; V. regenerate: give or obtain new life; reform spiritually ",
"a person who governs in place of a ruler who is ill, absent, or still a child; ADJ. Ex. the Prince regent ",
"murder of a king or queen ",
"method of system or government ",
"prescribed course of diet or exercise; prescribed diet and habits; Ex. daily regimen of a dancer ",
"military unit; V: subject to strict order; Ex. regimented society ",
"restore to proper condition (health or useful life); restore the former rank of ",
"repay; pay back ",
"restore to a previous condition or position ",
"repeat ",
"reply; retort; comeback; V. rejoin: say in reply ",
"make young again ",
"return to a former state (esp. after improvement); N. ",
"put into a lower or worse place; banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign; Ex. relegate the old furniture to the children's room; Ex. relegated to the second division ",
"become less severe; give in(surrender); ADJ. relentless: unyielding; continuously severe ",
"having importance; pertinent; referring to the case in hand; N. relevance, relevancy ",
"surviving remnant (from an extinct culture); memento; keepsake; relics: corpse; Ex. ancient relics; Ex. relics of his travel; Ex. His relics are buried at X. ",
"of religion; (of a person) pious; having reverence for a deity ",
"give up something (with reluctance); yield; release; Ex. relinquish power/the claim to the land/his hold on my arm ",
"enjoy; savor; N: enjoyment; zest ",
"reparable ",
"recollection; V. reminisce: recollect the past ",
"suggestive of something (in the past); of reminiscence ",
"negligent; careless about a duty ",
"temporary moderation (of disease symptoms); remitting of a debt or punishment; cancelation of a debt; pardon; Ex. The disease went into remission; Ex. Christians pray for the remission of sins. ",
"transmit (money) in payment; free someone from a debt or punishment ",
"remitting of money; amount of money remitted ",
"remainder ",
"protest; objection; V. remonstrate: say in protest ",
"deep regret for wrongdoing; guilt; self-reproach ",
"(of work) compensating; rewarding; profitable; well-paid; V. remunerate: reward; pay (someone) for work or trouble ",
"split; tear apart; N. rent; CF. heartrending: causing deep sorrow ",
"give; deliver; provide; represent in verbal or artistic form; depict; perform; make; translate; Ex. render the song beautifully ",
"meeting place; meeting at a set time or place; V. ",
"rendering; translation; artistic interpretation of a song, etc ",
"deserter; traitor; ADJ. ",
"break a promise; deny; go back on; Ex. renege on the contract/paying off the debt ",
"abandon; give up (by formal announcement); disown; repudiate; Ex. renounce one's claim to the property/one's religion; N. renunciation ",
"restore to good condition; renew ",
"fame; ADJ. renowned ",
"tear made by rending; rip; split ",
"capable of being repaired ",
"compensation (for loss or wrong); amends; Ex. make reparation for the damage; CF. repair ",
"quick clever reply ",
"meal; feast; banquet ",
"revoke; annul ",
"drive away; disgust; Ex. repel the attack/moisture; Ex. repelled by the dirty room; CF. repulsion ",
"driving away; disgusting; offensive; repulsive; unattractive; N. ",
"rebound; reaction; reverberation; Ex. serious repercussion ",
"list of works of music, drama, etc., a performer is prepared to present; CF. repertory ",
"fret; complain; be annoyed; Ex. repine over the undone work ",
"fill up again ",
"fully filled; filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied; Ex. report replete with errors ",
"copy ",
"reproduce; duplicate ",
"resting; state of being at rest; calmness; V: lie at rest; relax; put or place; Ex. repose our hopes in a single man ",
"storehouse ",
"deserving blame; blameworthy; V. reprehend: blame ",
"(of a style of art) showing things as they actually appear in real life ",
"hold back (the natural expression of); restrain; crush; oppress; Ex. repressed child; Ex. repress a laugh/rebellion ",
"postponement or cancelation of a punishment; temporary stay; V: postpone or cancel the punishment of ",
"reprove severely; rebuke; N. ",
"retaliation ",
"musical repetition; repeating of a piece of music; repeat performance; recurrent action; Ex. reprise in the finale; Ex. constant reprises ",
"blame (not angrily but sadly); express disapproval or disappointment; N. ADJ. reproachful ",
"morally disapproved person; person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency; CF. disapproved by God ? ",
"severe disapproval; CF. approbation ",
"censure; rebuke; N. reproof ",
"disown; disavow; deny ",
"disgust; strong dislike; loathing; ADJ. repugnant: arousing disgust; repulsive ",
"reject with rudeness or coldness (an offer or friendship); drive back (an enemy attack); CF. repulse $neq$ cause repulsion ",
"distaste; disgust; act of driving back; ADJ. repulsive: causing disgust; tending to drive away; V. repel (not `repulse') ",
"respectable; having a good reputation ",
"supposed; Ex. reputed father of the child; V. repute: consider; N. repute: reputation; esteem ",
"mass for the dead; dirge ",
"necessary requirement; something required; ADJ: required; necessary ",
"formal demand or request; Ex. requisition for more computing equipment; ",
"make return for; repay; reciprocate; revenge; N. requittal ",
"repeal; annul; cancel (a law, decision, or agreement) ",
"indignation; bitterness; displeasure; V. resent: feel anger about ",
"self-control; self-restraint; formal but distant manner; reticence; Ex. without reserve: freely and openly; ADJ. reserved: shy and uncommunicative ",
"remaining; left over; of a residue; N: residue ",
"remainder; balance ",
"give up (a position, right, or claim); submit (oneself) passively ",
"patiently submissiveness; statement that one is quitting a job; ADJ. resigned: acquiescent ",
"elastic; having the power of springing back; able to recover quickly (as from misfortune) ",
"determination; resoluteness; ADJ. resolute: firm or determined in purpose ",
"decide; settle; solve; separate; make a determined decision; N. resolution ",
"(of a sound) echoing; resounding(sounding loudly); deep and full in sound; producing resonance; Ex. resonant voice; N. resonance ",
"turn to for help; Ex. resort to violence; N. ",
"(of a place) be filled with sound; (of a sound) sound loudly; sound back; echo; Ex. hall resounded with laughter ",
"clever and imaginative (in dealing with difficult situations); N. resource, resourcefulness ",
"breathing; exhalation; ADJ. respiratory ",
"time for rest; interval of relief; delay in punishment; reprieve ",
"brilliant; splendid in appearance; dazzling; glorious ",
"state of reacting readily to appeals, orders, etc.; ADJ. responsive: readily reacting; Ex. responsive to treatment ",
"returning something (lost or stolen) to the rightful owner; reparation; indemnification; compensation for loss, damage, or injury ",
"impatiently restless (induced by external coercion or restriction); restlessly impatient; obstinately resisting control; Ex. restive horses because of wolves; CF. not a general synonym for `restless' ",
"moderation or self-control; controlling force; restriction ",
"taking up again; recommencement; V. resume: begin or take up again; take or occupy again; Ex. Kindly resume your seats. ",
"rise again; flow to and fro; N. resurgence; ADJ. resurgent: (of ideas or beliefs) experiencing revival; surging again ",
"revive ",
"revive; bring back to life or consciousness; Ex. resuscitate the drowned child ",
"keep; maintain possession of; employ (esp. a lawyer or advisor); N. retainer: servant; fee paid to retain an advisor ",
"repay in kind (usually for bad treatment); V. retaliate ",
"delay (in development); ADJ. retarded: (as of a child) slower in development ",
"holding; able to retain things (esp. facts in the mind); having a good memory ",
"inclined to silence; uncommunicative; reserved; Ex. He was reticent about the reasons; N. reticence ",
"following; attendants ",
"shy and reserved (of a person); modest; Ex. her retiring personality ",
"quick sharp reply; V. ",
"withdraw; take back; draw back; Ex. retract a statement/an offer/claws; N. retraction; CF. retractile ",
"cut down; cut down expenses; economize ",
"deserved punishment for wrongdoing; punishment for offenses; compensation; vengeance; CF. pay back ",
"recover; put right; find and bring in; regain; Ex. retrieve the situation ",
"taking effect before its enactment (as a law) or imposition (as a tax); (of a law) having effect on the past as well as the future ",
"go backwards; recede; degenerate; deteriorate; ADJ. ",
"looking back on the past; N. retrospection; V. retrospect ",
"boisterous merrymaking; V. revel: engage boisterous festivities; enjoy greatly; N: boisterous festivity or celebration ",
"echo repeatedly; resound; Ex. The thunder reverberated across the valley. ",
"deserving reverence; N: priest",
"respectful; worshipful; V. revere: regard with reverence; N. reverence: profound respect ",
"daydream; abstracted musing ",
"relapse; backslide; turn back to; return to the former owner; N. reversion ",
"attack with abusive language; vilify(slander) ",
"cancel; retract; CF. irrevocable ",
"sudden strong feeling of disgust; sudden violent change of feeling; negative reaction; Ex. revulsion from the scenes of torture ",
"speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner; Ex. rhapsodize over the beauty of the scenery ",
"excessively enthusiastic expression of feeling; musical composition of irregular form (as if made up as one plays it) ",
"art of effective communication; art of using language effectively and persuasively; style of speaking or writing; grandiloquent language; Ex. political rhetoric; ADJ. rhetorical; CF. rhetorical question: question to which no answer is expected as ",
"marked by vulgar lewd humor; wanton; profane; N. ribaldry: ribald language or joke ",
"(of buildings) likely to break or fall apart; of rickets; CF. rickets; CF. vitamin D ",
"pierce with holes; permeate or spread throughout; Ex. The gunman riddled the car with bullets; Ex. The whole report is riddled with errors; N. large sieve (separating earth from stone) ",
"amendment or clause added to a legislative bill ",
"(of something bad) widespread; abundant; current ",
"narrow opening in a large mass; break in a friendly relation; Ex. through a rift in the clouds; OP. reconcilation ",
"arrangement of masts and sails; V: equip (a ship) with rigging; ADJ. rigging: ropes that hold up a ship's sails ",
"morally upright; just ",
"legally correct; Ex. rightful owner ",
"hard and unbending; stiff and unyielding; fixed in behavior or views; strict; rigorous; Ex. rigid rule ",
"severity; Ex. rigors of the Russian winter ",
"irritate; vex; muddy ",
"tear or be torn quickly and violently; Ex. The sail ripped under the force of the wind; N. ",
"metal pin used for fastening metal plates together; V: fasten with a rivet; engross ",
"holding one's attention; absorbing; engrossing ",
"small stream; CF. rill < rivulet < river ",
"strong; vigorous ",
"ornate; highly decorated; N. CF. 18th century ",
"make liquids murky by stirring up sediment; disturb ",
"(of land) rising and falling in long gentle slopes; happening continuously by stages; Ex. rolling devolution of power to local governments ",
"play or frolic boisterously; gambol; N. ",
"cock; adult male chicken ",
"rosy; optimistic; Ex. roseate views ",
"list (of names) ",
"raised platform for speech-making; pulpit ",
"repetition; memorization through repetition without understanding; Ex. learn poetry by rote ",
"(of a person) fat and round ",
"circular building or hall covered with a dome ",
"roundness; sonorousness of speech ",
"lecherous man ",
"lively; inducing excitement; stirring; V. rouse: waken; arouse from sleep or depression; excite; stir up ",
"put to rout; stampede; drive out; N: complete defeat and disorderly retreat ",
"fragments (esp. from a destroyed building) ",
"title or heading (in red print); directions for religious ceremony; protocol ",
"reddish; (of the face) reddish and healthy-looking ",
"elementary; not developed; crude; N. rudiment: fundamental element or principle; Ex. rudiments of the language ",
"regret; lament; mourn; Ex. He will rue the day; N. ADJ. rueful ",
"violent scoundrel; bully ",
"make or move with a deep rolling sound (as thunder or stomach) ",
"animal that ruminates; ADJ. ",
"chew over and over (mentally or, like cows, physically); mull over(ponder) ",
"ransack; thoroughly search ",
"(of a place) dilapidated; in a bad condition; (of a person) weak or exhausted ",
"mysterious; set down in an ancient alphabet; N. rune: one of the letters of an alphabet used by ancient Germanic peoples (cut on stone or wood); magic charm ",
"trick to deceive; stratagem ",
"pertaining to country people; unsophisticated; simple; crude; uncouth; (of furniture) rough with the bark left on; N. rural person; rustic person ",
"banish to the country; dwell in the country ",
"make slight sounds like silk moving or being rubbed together ",
"pitiless; merciless; cruel ",
"one who commits sabotage; destroyer of property; N. sabotage: destruction of property (usually carried out secretly) ",
"cloying sweet; characteristic of sugar or saccharin ",
"desecrating; profane; N. sacrilege: desecration, misuse, or theft of something sacred ",
"invioably sacred; most sacred; inviolable ",
"inclined to cruelty; N. sadism: delight in cruelty ",
"Scandinavian myth; any legend; long heroic narrative ",
"wise; perceptive; shrewd; having insight; N. sagacity ",
"person celebrated for wisdom; wise person; ADJ: wise ",
"lascivious; lustful; Ex. salacious monk ",
"prominent; projecting beyond a line; conspicuous; Ex. salient features ",
"salty ",
"(of the skin) yellowish and unhealthy-looking; sickly in color; Ex. sallow complexion due to jaundice ",
"healthful; conducive to health or well-being; socially desirable; Ex. salubrious area; CF. health ",
"tending to improve; beneficial; wholesome; Ex. The punishment had a salutary effect on the boy; CF. health ",
"rescue (goods or property) from loss; N: saving; property saved ",
"displaying ostentatious or hypocritical devoutness; N. sanctimony: hypocritical piety ",
"approve; ratify; N: permission; penalty intended to enforce compliance ",
"place of refuge; shelter; shrine; holy place; Ex. The outlaw was granted sanctuary in the church. ",
"bloody; with much bloodshed ",
"optimistic; cheerful; hopeful; of the color of blood; red ",
"diminish; weaken; undermine the foundations of (a fortification); Ex. The element kryptonite sapped his strength. ",
"cutting ironic remark; scornful remarks; stinging rebuke; ADJ. sarcastic ",
"scornfully mocking; disdainful; sarcastic; cynical; Ex. sardonic smile ",
"pertaining to tailors or tailoring; Ex. a man of great sartorial elegance; CF. sartor: tailor ",
"satisfy to the full; satisfy to excess; cloy ",
"small body revolving around a larger one ",
"satisfy fully (physical needs such as hunger); sate; N. satiety: condition of being satiated ",
"form of literature in which irony, sarcasm, and ridicule are employed to attack human vice and folly ",
"using satire; mocking ",
"soak thoroughly; imbue; impregnate; charge; fill to capacity ",
"morose; gloomy; Ex. Do not be misled by his saturnine countenance. ",
"half-human, half-bestial being in the court of Dionysus (resembling a goat), portrayed as wanton(unrestrained) and cunning; lecher; CF. faun; CF. goat: lecherous man ",
"stroll(go for a leisurely walk) slowly; N. ",
"scholar; learned person; CF. savoir: know ",
"enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality; N: taste or smell; distinctive quality",
"pleasant in taste; tasty; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable; Ex. savory reputation ",
"case for a sword blade; sheath ",
"a great quantity; Ex. scads of clothes ",
"temporary platform for workers (to work at heights above the ground); bracing framework; platform for execution ",
"climb up; ascend; remove or come off in scales; N: flake of epidermis; ascending or descending series of musical tones ",
"meager; insufficient ",
"someone who bears the blame for others; whipping boy; CF. escape+goat ",
"hunt through discarded materials for usable items or food; search, especially for food; N. scavenger: one who scavenges; animal that feeds on refuse and carrion ",
"plot outline; screenplay(script for a movie); opera libretto; outline of possible future events ",
"of a schema or scheme; relating to an outline or diagram; using a system of symbols; N. schema: diagrammatic representation; outline ",
"systematic plan; plot; clever dishonest plan; orderly arrangement of elements; Ex. health insurance scheme; Ex. a scheme to escape taxes; Ex. a color scheme; Ex. a story with no scheme; V: contrive a scheme ",
"division into factions (esp. within a religious body); split ",
"full of learning; erudite; like a scholar; Ex. scholarly journal ",
"trace; minute amount; shred; least bit; Ex. There is not a scintilla of truth; CF. spark ",
"sparkle; flash; be animated; be full of life; Ex. scintillating conversation ",
"detached plant shoot used in grafting; descendant ",
"laugh (at); mock; ridicule; Ex. scoff at their threats ",
"sear; ",
"number of points; written form of a musical composition; reason; group of 20; notch or incision; Ex. full/vocal score; Ex. Don't worry on that score; V: mark with lines or notches; Ex. score the paper to make it easy to fold ",
"stamp out(put an end to); thwart; hinder; Ex. scotch the rumor; CF. cut; ",
"lash; whip (formerly used for punishment); source of severe punishment; V: whip; afflict ",
"frown angrily; N: angry frown ",
"small bit or fragment; discarded waste material; fight; Ex. a scrap of paper/cloth; V: break into parts for disposal; discard as worthless; fight; quarrel ",
"quarrelsome ",
"leftover food ",
"unpleasant high sharp sound; shriek; V. ",
"disorderly fight between two or more people ",
"hesitate for ethical reasons; fret about; Ex. She did not scruple to read his diary; N: uneasy feeling arising from conscience; conscience ",
"conscientious; extremely thorough; Ex. scrupulous worker ",
"examine closely and critically; N. scrutiny ",
"struggle confusedly; move off in a confused hurry; N. CF. scuffling twins ? ",
"abusive; obscene; indecent; Ex. scurrilous remark ",
"move hastily; hurry; move briskly ",
"contemptible; despicable; N: disease caused by deficiency of Vitamin C ",
"sink (a ship) by cutting holes in the hull; scrap; discard; N: small hatch in a ship's deck or hull ",
"sordid; base; filthy; unwholesome; Ex. seamy side of city life ",
"burn the surface of; char or burn; brand; parch; cause (a plant) to wither ",
"enhance the flavor of by adding a spice, etc.; inure; harden; N. seasoning: something used in seasoning ",
"occurring at the proper time or season; opportune; Ex. seasonable intervention in the dispute ",
"of a particular season; Ex. seasonal rise in employment ",
"experienced ",
"withdrawal; V. secede: withdraw formally from membership ",
"isolation; solitude; V. seclude: set apart from others; isolate ",
"conceal; hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism; CF. secretive ",
"separate religious body; faction; group of people with common beliefs within a larger group ",
"of a sect; narrow-minded; parochial; N: member of a sect; narrow-minded person ",
"worldly; not pertaining to church matters or religion; temporal ",
"composed (with no excitement); grave; V: administer a sedative to; CF. sedative ",
"requiring sitting; done while sitting; not moving from one place to another; settled; Ex. sedentary job/population ",
"conduct or language inciting rebellion; rebellion; resistance to authority; insubordination; ADJ. seditious ",
"lead away from proper conduct; entice; ADJ. seductive ",
"diligent; assiduous; paying attention; N. sedulity ",
"run-down; decrepit; disreputable; having many seeds; Ex. seedy downtown hotel ",
"(of behavior) proper; appropriate ",
"pass slowly through small openings; ooze; trickle; N. seepage ",
"be violently disturbed; boil; (of a liquid) move about wildly as if boiling; Ex. The nation was seething with discontent. ",
"seine net; net for catching fish ",
"pertaining to earthquakes ",
"careful in choosing; having an effect only on certain things; not general; Ex. eclectic weed killer ",
"excessive indulgence of one's own desire ",
"sure of one's own righteousness; moralistic ",
"outward appearance; guise; Ex. We called in the troops to bring a/some semblance of order to the city. ",
"related to seed or semen; germinal; creative; providing a basis for further development; influencing future developments; Ex. seminal research in a new field ",
"school for training future ministers; secondary school, especially for young women ",
"old age; feeblemindedness of old age; ADJ. senile: resulting from old age; showing the weakness of body or mind from old age; Ex. senile dementia ",
"process of being made sensitive or acutely responsive to an external agent or substance; V. sensitize: make or become sensitive ",
"devoted to the pleasures of the sense; carnal; voluptuous; Ex. sensual woman/curves/lips ",
"giving pleasure to the senses; pertaining to the physical senses; operating through the senses; sensuous feeling of soft velvet on the skin ",
"pithy; terse; concise; aphoristic ",
"capable of sensation and conscious; aware; sensitive; Ex. sentient creature; N. sentience ",
"swayed by sentiment; appealing to the sentiments ",
"sentry; lookout ",
"of or causing sepsis; putrid; producing putrefaction; N. sepsis: poisoning of part of the body (producing pus) ",
"tomb; V: place in a sepulcher; ADJ. sepulchral ",
"isolate; segregate; seclude; retire from public life ",
"sear; parched; dry ",
"gift for finding valuable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck; CF. The Three Princes of Serendip ",
"calmness; placidity; ADJ. serene ",
"winding; twisting; of or like a serpent; Ex. serpentine course of the river; N. serpent: snake ",
"having a sawtoothed edge; Ex. serrated leaf ",
"slavish; cringing; N. servility ",
"slavery; compulsory labor imposed as a punishment ",
"separate; cut off (a part) from a whole; break up (a relationship); N. severance; CF. severance pay: extra pay given an employee upon leaving a position ",
"harshness; intensity; sternness; austerity; ADJ. severe: harsh; strict; extremely violent or intense ",
"navigation tool used to determine a ship's latitude and longitude (by measuring the altitudes of stars) ",
"crude cabin ",
"chain; fetter; confine with shackles; N. ",
"slight difference in degree; nuance; degree of color; Ex. shades of meaning/grey ",
"pretend; feign; ADJ: not genuine; fake; Ex. sham jewelry; N: something that is not what it appears; impostor; pretense; Ex. The agreement was a sham. ",
"(place or scene of) complete disorder or ruin; wreck; mess; Ex. After the hurricane, the coast was a shambles. ",
"imaginary remote paradise on earth; CF. Lost Horizon ",
"fragment generally of broken pottery (glass, clay bowl, or cup) ",
"very thin piece, usually of wood (cut from a surface with a sharp blade) ",
"bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together ",
"remove (fleece or hair) by cutting; remove the hair or fleece from; cut with or as if with shears; N: shears; pair of scissors ",
"place into a case; insert into or provide with a sheath; Ex. He sheathed his dagger; N. sheath: case for a blade ",
"small roofed structure for storage and shelter; V: pour forth; lose by natural process; repel without allowing penetration; radiate; cast; Ex. shed tears/light/water/skin/leaves ",
"pure; thin and transparent; very steep ",
"flavored dessert ice ",
"change position or place; exchange (one thing) for another; change in direction or position; Ex. shift the stolen goods; N. group of workers which takes turns with other groups; working period of such a group ",
"shine with a flickering light; glimmer intermittently; Ex. The moonlight shimmered on the water; N. ",
"avoid (responsibility, work, etc.); malinger ",
"made of inferior material; sham; not genuine; inferior; dishonest; Ex. shoddy goods/trick ",
"new growth from a plant ",
"push forward; push roughly; Ex. pushing and shoving to get on the bus; N. ",
"scolding woman; very small mouselike animal ",
"clever; astute ",
"make or become shrunken and wrinkled (often by drying) ",
"shake uncontrollably; tremble; V. ",
"mix together; jumble; move (something) from one place to another; slide (the feet) along the ground while walking; Ex. shuffle papers from one pile to another; N. ",
"keep away from; avoid deliberately; Ex. She has been shunned by her neighbors. ",
"move (a railway train) from one track to another; turn aside; divert; sidetrack; Ex. shunt traffic around an accident; N. ",
"lawyer using questionable methods; unscrupulous practioner ",
"brother or sister ",
"prophetic; oracular; N. sibyl: woman prophet (in the ancient world) ",
"relating to stars; Ex. sidereal day ",
"switch (a railroad car) to a siding; divert from a main issue; N. CF. siding: short section of railroad track connected by switches with a main track ",
"put through a sieve to separate fine from coarse particles; sort or examine carefully ",
"expressing a meaning; important; Ex. significant smile; N. significance: importance; meaning; V. signify: denote; mean; signal; make known; matter; be significant ",
"sediment deposited by running water (at the entrance to a harbor or by a bend in a river) ",
"monkeylike; N: ape or monkey ",
"comparison of one thing with another, using the word like or as ",
"smirk; smile in a silly way; smile affectedly ",
"oversimplified ",
"feign; imitate ",
"well-paid position with little responsibility; CF. sine cure: without care; CF. San Serif ",
"(of meat) tough; strong and firm; muscular; N. sinew: tendon; strong cord connecting a muscle to a bone ",
"being only one; individual; unique; extraordinary; odd; Ex. singular beauty/behavior ",
"evil; ominous ",
"twisting; winding; bending in and out; not morally honest ",
"apparatus for making sounds; womanlike creature ",
"sceptic; doubter; person who suspends judgment until he has examined the evidence supporting a point of view; ADJ. skeptical; N. skepticism; scepticism ",
"small light sailboat or rowboat ",
"read or glance through quickly; touch lightly in passing; brush; remove from the surface of a liquid ",
"provide or use scantily; live very economically; Ex. skimp on necessities; ADJ. skimpy: inadequate in amount; scanty; stingy; niggardly ",
"miser; stingy person ",
"minor fight; minor battle in war; V. ",
"inconstant; capricious; frivolous; not serious; Ex. charming but skittish young woman; CF. skit ",
"dishonest behavior or action; Ex. skulduggery in the election ",
"move furtively and secretly; Ex. He skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city. ",
"moving slowly; sluggish; inactive; (of a rope) loose; negligent; lax; Ex. slack season; Ex. slack in one's work; N. V. ",
"slow up; loosen; make or become slack ",
"glassy residue from smelting metal; dross; waste matter ",
"satisfy (thirst); quench; sate ",
"defamation; utterance of false and malicious statements; V. ADJ. slanderous ",
"hit quickly with the flat part of the hand; N. CF. smack ",
"hasty and careless; haphazard; sloppy(carelessly done) ",
"killing of animals for food; massacre; V: butcher (animals) for food; kill in large numbers ",
"of or like a slave; servile; showing no originality; copied very closely; Ex. slavish devotion/copy of the original ",
"shabby and dirty; flimsy; insubstantial; Ex. sleazy back-street hotel/fabric ",
"large sled drawn by work animals ",
"smooth and shining (as from good health); V. ",
"one that achieves unexpected success; something originally of little value or importance that in time becomes very valuable ",
"large vehicle drawn by a horse over snow or ice ",
"dexterity; CF. sleight of hand: legerdemain; quickness of the hands in doing tricks ",
"large quantity or number; Ex. slew of errands left ",
"make smooth or glossy; N: smooth surface; Ex. oil slick; ADJ: smooth; glossy; deftly executed; adroit; glib ",
"insult to one's dignity; snub; V: treat as if of small importance; insult; snub; ADJ. small in size; of small importance ",
"move furtively; ADJ. slinky: stealthy; furtive; sneaky (as in ambush) ",
"slovenly; careless; sloppy; untidy; shabby; Ex. slipshod work ",
"slip or slide ",
"slow moving tree-dwelling mammal; laziness; ADJ. slothful: lazy; indolent ",
"(of a snake) shed or cast off (dead outer skin); N: outer layer that is shed ",
"untidy; careless in work habits; slipshod; N. sloven: one who is habitually untidy or careless ",
"lazy person ",
"lazy; slow; inactive; lethargic; CF. slug: nail with no shell ",
"artificial channel for directing or controlling the flow of water (with a gate to regulate the flow) ",
"pronounce indistinctly; speak indistinctly; mumble ",
"clever in deceiving; secretive; not telling one's intentions ",
"intelligent; quick and energetic; fashionable; Ex. smart pace/restaurant; V: cause or feel a sharp pain; N: smarting pain ",
"slight knowledge; small scattered number or amount; Ex. smattering of German ",
"spread or cover with a sticky substance; N: mark made by smearing ",
"melt (ore) for separating and removing the metal; melt or blend ores changing their chemical composition ",
"conceited smile; offensively self-satisfied smile (often at someone else's misfortune); V. ",
"smoulder; burn slowly without flame; be liable to break out at any moment; exist in a suppressed state; Ex. smoldering anger ",
"kill from lack of air; suppress; cover thickly; Ex. smothered in little stickers ",
"dirty mark with unclear edges made by rubbing; V. ",
"self-satisfied; complacent ",
"move, give, or take in a quiet, stealthy way; N: one who sneaks; ADJ. sneaky ",
"half-stifled(suppressed) laugh; V. ",
"short quick cut with scissors; V: cut with scissors ",
"complain or whine tearfully; run at the nose; snuffle; Ex. Don't come back sniveling to me. ",
"ignore or behave coldly toward; Ex. I made a suggestion but she snubbed me; N. ",
"sniffle; sniff repeatedly (in order to keep liquid from running out of the nose) ",
"rise or fly high in the air; Ex. The rocket soared into the sky. ",
"serious; solemn; not drunken; abstemious or temperate; V: make or become sober ",
"moderation (especially regarding indulgence in alcohol); seriousness ",
"thoroughly soaked; dull or stupid as if from drink ",
"temporary stay; V: stay for a time ",
"comfort in sorrow or trouble; consolation; V: comfort or console in time of sorrow or trouble ",
"repair or make whole by using a metal alloy; N: metal alloy (usually tin and lead) used in the molten state to join metallic parts ",
"nonstandard grammatical construction; construction that is flagrantly incorrect grammatically; violation of social etiquette ",
"seriousness; gravity ",
"entreat; request earnestly; seek to obtain; Ex. solicit votes; CF. solicitor: one who solicits; chief law officer ",
"lawyer in the lower court of law ",
"anxious; worried; concerned; eager; Ex. solicitous to do something; N. solicitude ",
"talking to oneself (esp. in a play); CF. monologue: soliloquy; long speech by one person (often monopolizing a conversation) ",
"state of being alone; seclusion; ADJ. solitary: existing or living alone (esp. by choice); remote or secluded; single; sole; Ex. solitary life/inn; Ex. no solitary piece of proof ",
"point or time at which the sun is farthest from the equator ",
"able to be dissolved in a liquid; able to be worked out or solved ",
"substance that dissolves another; ADJ: capable of dissolving another substance ",
"pertaining to the body; bodily; physical ",
"dark; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; CF. shadow ",
"sleepwalker; V. somnambulate; N. somnambulism ",
"half asleep; drowsy; N. somnolence ",
"of sound or its speed in air; CF. subsonic, supersonic ",
"14-line poetic verse form with a fixed rhyme pattern ",
"resonant; producing a full deep sound; producing sound ",
"one who foretells the future ",
"teacher of philosophy; quibbler; employer of fallacious reasoning; N. sophism: plausible but fallacious argument ",
"worldly wise and urbane; refined; complex; N. sophistication; V. sophisticate ",
"seemingly plausible but fallacious reasoning; sophism ",
"immature; half-baked; like a sophomore ",
"sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness; drowsy ",
"filthy; foul; base; vile; Ex. sordid bed/story ",
"in good condition; showing good judgment or good sense; thorough; complete; Ex. sound mind/investment/training ",
"having a sharp or acid taste; acid; tart; bad-tempered; V. ",
"ruler in a monarchy; ADJ: (of a country) independent and selfgoverning; having supreme power; supreme; excellent ",
"complete independence and self-government (of a country); supremacy of authority; power to govern ",
"plant or scatter seed ",
"small shiny metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation ",
"give; use; refrain from harming; save from experiencing; exempt; Ex. spare me 5 minutes; Ex. Take this money and spare my life; Ex. The emperor was spared the onus; ADJ: kept in reserve; free for other use; unoccupied; Ex. spare time ",
"not thick; thinly scattered; scanty ",
"without attention to comfort; lacking luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined; Ex. spartan living condition/life ",
"fitful; periodic; of or like a spasm; N. spasm: sudden involuntary muscular contraction; sudden burst of energy or emotion ",
"squabble; minor dispute; minor quarrel ",
"sudden flood or rush; Ex. spate of accidents ",
"relating to space ",
"broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing ",
"lay eggs (in large numbers); produce offspring (in large numbers); N: eggs of aquatic animals ",
"seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally) ",
"small piece or mark; Ex. speck of dust in the eye ",
"ghostly; N. specter: spectre; ghost; phantom ",
"colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; broad and continuous range; Ex. whole spectrum of modern thoughts ",
"unable for the moment to speak (because of strong feeling); Ex. speechless with anger ",
"someone who wastes money; CF. thrift: accumulated wealth ",
"enigmatic; mysterious ",
"rotate swiftly; make (thread) by twisting (cotton, wool, etc.); N. ",
"join together end to end to make one continuous length; fasten together; unite; Ex. splice two strips of tape; N. ",
"one who spoils the pleasure of others ",
"lack of premeditation; naturalness; freedom from constraint; ADJ. spontaneous: self-generated; unpremeditated; happening without being planned ",
"parody ",
"accidental transposition of sounds in successive words; Ex. ``Let me sew you to your sheet'' for ``Let me show you to your seat''; CF. William Spooner ",
"occurring irregularly; intermittent ",
"playful; frolicsome; merry; CF. sport: play or frolic; CF. sportsmanlike ",
"begin to grow; give off shoots or buds; N: new growth on a plant; shoot ",
"neat and trim in appearance; smart; Ex. Be spruce for your job interview; V. ",
"(esp. of older people) vigorously active; nimble ",
"false; counterfeit; forged; illogical; Ex. spurious arguments ",
"reject disdainfully; scorn; Ex. She spurned all offers of help. ",
"minor quarrel; bickering; V: engage in a minor quarrel; Ex. squabbling children ",
"condition of being squalid; filth; degradation; dirty neglected state; ADJ. squalid: dirty; sordid; morally repulsive; Ex. squalid story ",
"waste; spend foolishly ",
"crush; quash; suppress ",
"short and thick; stocky; Ex. ugly squat tower; V. N. ",
"easily shocked or sickened by unpleasant things; fastidious; Ex. A nurse should not be squeamish. ",
"produce a splashing sound (when stepping through mud); crush; squash; ",
"played in an abrupt manner; marked by abrupt sharp sound; Ex. staccato applause ",
"(of water) not flowing (often bad-smelling); motionless; stale; not developing; inactive; dull; Ex. stagnant industrial output ",
"serious and sedate; sober; Ex. staid during the funeral ceremony ",
"deadlock; situation in which further action is blocked ",
"physically strong; brawny; steadfast; strong in mind or determination; Ex. stalwart supporter; N: stalwart follower ",
"power of endurance; strength; staying power ",
"speak with involuntarily pauses or repetitions ",
"step on heavily (so as to crush or extinguish); put an end to; imprint or impress with a mark, design, or seal; shape with a die; characterize; Ex. machine stamping out car bodies; Ex. newspaper stamping him as a liar; N. stamping; implement us ",
"sudden frenzied rush (of panic-stricken animals or people); V: participate in or cause stampede; Ex. stampede before the price rises ",
"stop or check flow of blood; Ex. stanch the gushing wound ",
"condition of no movement or activity; stop ",
"division of a poem (composed of two or more lines) ",
"move suddenly or involuntarily; Ex. start at the sight of a snake ",
"formal; ceremonious; grand in style or size; majestic ",
"having no motion; unchanging; lacking development; N. stasis: stable state ",
"law enacted by the legislature ",
"created by statute or legislative action; regulated by statute; Ex. statutory age limit ",
"steadily loyal; unswerving; steady ",
"action of moving secretly or unseen; slyness; sneakiness; secretiveness; ADJ. stealthy ",
"soak; saturate; Ex. steep the fabric in the dye bath; ADJ: precipitous ",
"pertaining to the stars; of a star performer; outstanding; Ex. stellar attraction of the entire performance ",
"stop or check (the flow of); Ex. stem the bleeding from the slashed artery; N: main axis of a plant; stalk ",
"arise from; originate from ",
"strong foul odor; reek; stink ",
"(of the voice) extremely loud; CF. Stentor: a loud herald in the Iliad ",
"one regarded as embodying a set image or type; fixed and unvarying representation; standardized mental picture often reflecting prejudice; Ex. stereotype of the happy slave; V: make a stereotype of; represent by a stereotype; Ex. It is wrong to ster ",
"incapable of producing young; free from microorganism; V. sterilize ",
"perfectionist; person who insists things be exactly right ",
"suppress; extinguish; inhibit; smother or suffocate ",
"token of disgrace; brand; V. stigmatize: mark with a stigma; characterize as disgraceful ",
"bombastic; stiffly pompous; Ex. stilted rhetoric; CF. stiff: formal ",
"stench; V: emit a strong foul odor ",
"supply; allotted amount of work; assigned portion of work; limitation; Ex. two-year stint in the army; Ex. without stint ",
"pay for services ",
"paint or draw with dots or short strokes ",
"state as a necessary condition (of an agreement); make express conditions; specify; Ex. He stipulated payment in advance ",
"standard; kept regularly in stock or supply; typical; routine; common; Ex. stock sizes of paper; Ex. stock excuse/character; N: goods for sale in a shop; OP. unique ",
"wooden enclosure or pen; fixed line of posts used as defensive barrier ",
"dull; stuffy; boringly conservative; Ex. stodgy book ",
"stoical; impassive; unmoved by joy or grief; N. CF. stoicism ",
"stir up a fire or furnace; feed plentifully ",
"dull; impassive; showing little emotion when strong feelings are expected ",
"bend forward and down; lower or debase oneself; fall to a lower standard of behavior by doing something; condescend; Ex. stoop to lying ",
"rather fat; strong in body; sturdy; resolute; determined; strong in determination; Ex. stout stick/supporter ",
"stray or fall behind (a main group); spread out in a scattered group; Ex. straggling marathon racer; Ex. straggling branch ",
"kill by choking or suffocating; suppress ",
"deceptive scheme; clever trick ",
"divided into classes; arranged into strata; V. stratify ",
"layer of earth's surface; layer of society; PL. strata ",
"spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter; Ex. flower girl strewing rose petals ",
"marked with parallel bands; striped; grooved; Ex. striated rocks; V. striate; N. stria: thin groove or line ",
"severe and adverse criticism; critical comments; limit or restriction ",
"loud and harsh; insistent; N. stridency ",
"(of rules) binding; rigid; marked by scarcity of money; Ex. stringent economic conditions ",
"supporting bar; CF. airplane wing building support ",
"carefully contrived; calculated; unspontaneous; deliberate; thoughtful; Ex. studied remark ",
"given to diligent study ",
"make stupid in mind; cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; suppress; frustrate or hinder; Ex. stultifying effect of uninteresting work; Ex. stultify free expression ",
"trip and almost fall; proceed unsteadily; act falteringly; N. ",
"base of a tree trunk left after the rest has been cut down; V: walk in a heavy manner; baffle; puzzle ",
"make unconscious or numb as by a blow; amaze; astound ",
"stun; make numb (as with a drug); amaze ",
"state of being stupefied; state of apathy; daze; lack of awareness ",
"strong and firm (in the body) ",
"unpleasantly dark; gloomy; hellish; deathly; CF. Styx: the chief river in the subterranean land of the dead ",
"thwart; present an obstacle; stump ",
"urbanity; polish; ADJ. suave: smooth and courteous ",
"subordinate ",
"less intense; quieter; Ex. subdued lighting; Ex. subdue: conquer; make less intense; quiet; Ex. subdue one's anger ",
"influenced by personal feelings; occurring or taking place within the mind; unreal; Ex. subjective sensation of the ghostly presence ",
"conquer; bring under control ",
"refine; purify; replace (natural urges) with socially acceptable activities; change between a solid state and a gaseous state ",
"causing deep feelings of wonder, joy, respect, etc.; exalted; noble and uplifting; utter ",
"below the threshold of conscious perception; Ex. subliminal advertisement ",
"place under water; dip; go under water; cover completely (as with water); Ex. submerged in work ",
"willing to obey orders; yielding; timid ",
"occupying a lower rank; inferior; submissive; N. V: put in a lower rank or class ",
"persuade to act unlawfully (especially to commit perjury); N. subornation ",
"writ(written command issued by a court) summoning a witness to appear in court; V: summon with a subpoena ",
"following in time or order; later ",
"behaving like a slave; servile; obsequious; subordinate; N. subservience ",
"sink to a lower level; settle down; sink to the bottom (as a sediment); descend; grow quiet; become less; moderate; abate ",
"serving to assist; subordinate; secondary; of a subsidy; N. ",
"direct financial aid by government, etc.; V. subsidize: assist with a subsidy ",
"existence; means of subsisting; means of support; livelihood; V. subsist: exist; maintain life (at a meager level) ",
"of substance; material; solid; essential or fundamental; ample; considerable; well-to-do; wealthy ",
"support (a claim) with evidence; establish with evidence; verify ",
"substantial; essential; pertaining to the substance; substantial; considerable; Ex. substantive issues ",
"include (as a member of a group); encompass ",
"stratagem(deceptive scheme); pretense; evasion; Ex. resort to a harmless subterfuge ",
"perceptiveness; ingenuity; delicacy; ADJ. subtle: delicate; so slight as to be difficult to detect; able to make fine distinctions; clever; Ex. subtle mind/differences in meaning ",
"tending to overthrow or ruin; V. subvert: overthrow completely (an established system); destroy completely; CF. undermine ? ",
"assist (someone in difficulty); aid; comfort; N. ",
"juicy; full of juice or sap; full of richness; N: succulent plant such as a cactus ",
"yield (to something overwhelming); give in; die; Ex. succumb to the illness ",
"give or take milk at the breast or udder ",
"die or kill from lack of air; suppress ",
"advocate of the extension of voting rights (for women); CF. suffrage ",
"spread through or over (with a color or liquid); charge; Ex. A blush suffused her cheeks. ",
"man who is courting a woman ",
"silently showing ill humor or resentment; dark; gloomy ",
"defile; soil; tarnish; Ex. sully one's hands in menial labor ",
"(of weather) hot; sweltering; sensual; voluptuous ",
"act of finding the total; summing-up; summary (esp. one given by the judge at the end of a trial) ",
"grand suggesting great expense; lavish; rich; Ex. sumptuous feast ",
"separate; part; CF. asunder ",
"miscellaneous; various; several; N. sundries: small miscellaneous items ",
"retired or disqualified because of age; outmoded; obsolete ",
"haughty; arrogant; condescending; patronizing; CF. eyebrow, cilium ",
"superfluous; more than needed or demanded ",
"of the surface; not deep; shallow; not thorough; trivial; Ex. superficial analysis/knowledge ",
"excessive; overabundant; unnecessary; N. superfluity ",
"place over something else ",
"person or thing excess of what is necessary; extra; ADJ: additional to the usual or necessary number ",
"replace; cause to be set aside; make obsolete; N. supersession ",
"lying on back; passive; inactive; Ex. The defeated pugilist lay supine; Ex. supine acceptance of the decision ",
"take the place of unfairly; usurp; replace ",
"flexible; limber; pliant ",
"entreating; beseeching; ",
"one who supplicates; ",
"petition humbly; pray to grant a favor ",
"assumption; hypothesis; surmise; V. suppose ",
"assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical ",
"put an end to forcibly; subdue; stifle; overwhelm; inhibit the expression of; check; prevent from being published or made public; Ex. suppress a smile; Ex. suppress the magazine/truth ",
"satiate; feed or supply to excess; stuff; indulge to excess in anything; N: surfeiting; excessive amount; Ex. surfeit of food ",
"powerful movement of or like a wave; ",
"bad-tempered; rude; cross ",
"guess; ",
"overcome ",
"exceed ",
"done secretly; secret; furtive; sneaky; hidden ",
"substitute; person or thing used in place of another; Ex. surrogate mother; ",
"close observation of a person (esp. one under suspicion); watching; guarding ",
"impressionable; easily influenced; sensitive; having little resistance as to a disease; likely to suffer; receptive to; capable of accepting; Ex. susceptible to persuasion/colds; Ex. The agreement is not susceptible of alteration; N. susceptibility ",
"cause to stop for a period; interrupt; hold in abeyance; defer; hang from above; exclude for a period from a position; Ex. suspended state; Ex. suspend judgment; Ex. suspended from the team; N. suspension ",
"state of being undecided; anxiety or apprehension resulting from uncertainty ",
"suffer (harm or loss); experience; support; prop; maintain; keep in existence; nourish (to maintain life); Ex. sustain the family/the trapped miners ",
"sustaining; means of livelihood, support, food, nourishment; something that maintains life; food ",
"stitches sewn to hold the cut edges of a wound or incision; material used in sewing; V: sew together a wound ",
"walk or behave with an over-confident manner ",
"wetland; marsh; V: flood; overwhelm; drench in with liquid ",
"large group of insects moving in a mass; crowd of people or animals; V: move in a crowd or mass ",
"(of a skin or complexion) dark; dusky; Ex. swarthy Italian ? ",
"swath; wrap around; bandage; Ex. one's head swathed in bandages ",
"swing from side to side; influence (someone) to change one's opinion; ",
"vow; promise; use profane oaths; use offensive words ",
"word considered offensive; Ex. ``bloody'' ",
"long wave of water that moves continuously without breaking; ",
"(of a person) suffer from oppressive heat; be oppressed by heat ",
"deviate; turn aside sharply from a straight course; Ex. swerve from the principle; Ex. The car swerved to the right. ",
"drink greedily ",
"cheater ",
"hit with a sweeping motion; N. ",
"lover of luxury; person devoted to pleasure and luxury; CF. Sybaris: an ancient Greek city in Italy ",
"servile flatterer; bootlicker; yes man; ADJ. sycophantic ",
"logical formula consisting of a major premise, a minor premise and a conclusion; deceptive or specious argument ",
"pertaining to the woods or the country ",
"interdependent relationship (between groups, species) often mutually beneficial; ADJ. symbiotic; CF. together + life ",
"arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity; ADJ. symmetrical ",
"similarly timed; simultaneous with; occurring at the same time; V. synchronize ",
"providing a general overview; summary; N. synopsis ",
"combining parts or separate things into a whole; the whole so formed; PL. syntheses; V. synthesize ",
"not natural; artificial; resulting from synthesis; Ex. synthetic fiber; ",
"small round piece of medicine; flat piece of stone or metal bearing an inscription; Ex. stone tablet on the wall ",
"understood (without actually being expressed); not put into words; Ex. tacit agreement ",
"habitually silent; talking little ",
"skill or sensitivity in dealing with people without causing offence ",
"careful no to cause offence; OP. tactless ",
"pertaining to the organs or sense of touch ",
"contaminate; cause to lose purity; modify with a trace of something bad; Ex. tainted reputation; N: stain; touch of decay or bad influence; CF. touch ",
"burlesque; act of leaving the ground ",
"charm; object believed to give supernatural powers to or protect its bearer ",
"claw of bird ",
"convert (hide) into leather; make brown by exposure to the sun ",
"only slightly connected; not central; peripheral; digressing; showing divergence; CF. tangent ",
"able to be touched; real; concrete; palpable; possible to realize or understand; Ex. tangible proof ",
"person who turns animal hides into leather ",
"tease; excite by exposing something desirable while keeping it out of reach; torture with disappointment; CF. Tantalus: Greek mythological figure ",
"equivalent in effect or value; Ex. This invasion is tantamount to a declaration of war; CF. amount ",
"fit of bad temper; fit of petulance; caprice; Ex. The child went into tantrums. ",
"very thin candle; gradual decrease in the width of a long object; V. make or become gradually narrower toward one end ",
"venomous spider ",
"slow; sluggish; not on time; late; Ex. tardy arrival ",
"make or become dull or discolored; N. ",
"linger; delay in starting or going; dawdle ",
"sharp to the taste; acid-tasting; caustic; sarcastic; Ex. tart apple/reply ",
"torn piece of cloth; ADJ. tattered: (of clothes) old and torn; (of a person) dressed in old torn clothes ",
"deride or provoke; challenge in derision; N. ",
"tight; strained; tense; ready; OP. slack ",
"needlessly repetitious; Ex. ``It was visible to the eye''; N. tautology: needless repetition of the same sense; statement that is always true ",
"cheap and gaudy; Ex. tawdry jewelry ",
"brownish yellow ",
"specialist in classifying (animals, etc.); CF. taxonomy: science of classification ",
"boredom; weariness; ADJ. tedious ",
"practice of abstaining totally from alcoholic drinks; N. teetotaler;; ADJ. teetotal; CF. T + total ",
"boldness; nerve; rashness; Ex. temerity to ask for a pay increase after only three day's work ",
"moderate; make less severe; tone down or restrain; toughen (steel) as by alternate heating and cooling ",
"characteristic frame of mind; disposition; emotional excess; ADJ. temperamental: of temperament; having frequent changes of temper; Ex. temperamental dislike of sports; Ex. temperamental actress ",
"moderate; restrained; self-controlled; moderate in respect to temperature; CF. temperance: moderation and self-restraint; abstinence of alcoholic drinks; Ex. temperance society ",
"stormy; violent; impassioned; N. tempest: violent storm ",
"speed of music ",
"of time; not lasting forever; limited by time; temporary; secular; worldly ",
"gain time as by postponing an action; avoid committing oneself ",
"holding fast (as to a belief); persistent ",
"firmness; persistence ",
"possession of land or building by rent; period of a tenant's occupancy ",
"one that pays rent to use property owned by another ",
"have a tendency; take care of; minister; serve at; apply one's attention; attend ",
"promoting a particular point of view; biased; having an aim; designed to further a cause; Ex. tendentious rather than truth-seeking; CF. tend: move in a certain direction ",
"offer formally; extend; Ex. tender one's resignation/the exact fare; N: formal offer; money; Ex. legal tender; ADJ: young and vulnerable; sensitive to the touch; sore; soft; delicate; Ex. child of tender years; Ex. tender wound ",
"doctrine; dogma ",
"capable of being stretched; of tension; Ex. tensile rubber ",
"stretching; condition of being stretched; mental strain; strained relationship between groups or people ",
"not fully worked out or developed; provisional; experimental; uncertain; hesitant; not definite or positive; Ex. tentative agreement/reply ",
"thin; slim; rare ",
"holding of an office or real estate; time during which such an office is held ",
"lukewarm; slightly warm; half-hearted; not eager; Ex. tepid reaction to the new film; Ex. tepid supporter ",
"part that forms the end; railroad or bus station; ADJ. forming an end; ending in death; fatal; Ex. terminal cancer ",
"end; V. terminate ",
"terms used in a science or art; study of nomenclature ",
"last stop of railroad; end ",
"on or relating to the earth ",
"concise; abrupt; pithy ",
"third in order or rank ",
"mosaic; inlaid; Ex. tessellated pattern ",
"maker of a will; CF. testatrix ",
"irritable; impatient and bad-tempered; short-tempered; N. testiness ",
"tie (an animal) with a rope or tether; N: rope or chain to which an animal is tied; limit of one's endurance; Ex. the end of one's tether ",
"of a theme; relating to a unifying motif or idea ",
"government run by religious leaders ",
"based on theory; not practical or applied; hypothetical ",
"curative; N. therapy ",
"pertaining to heat; producing heat; warm; Ex. thermal bath; N: rising current of warm air ",
"opinion put forward and supported by reasoned arguments ",
"pertaining to drama; N: actor or actress ",
"slave; bondage; slavery; Ex. Her beauty held him in thrall; CF. enthrall ",
"beat with a whip or flail; defeat utterly; talk about thoroughly in order to find the answer; move wildly or violently; Ex. The fishes thrashed about in the net. ",
"worn through till the threads show; shabby and poor; hackneyed; Ex. threadbare excuses ",
"sign or warning (of coming danger); Ex. threat of rain; V: express a threat; give warning of (something bad); Ex. The cloud threatens rain. ",
"beat (cereal plants) with a machine or flail to separate the grains from the straw ",
"careful about money; economical; N. thrift ",
"prosper; flourish ",
"(of a heart or machine) beat rapidly or violently; N. Ex. hearthrob: heartbeat; sweetheart ",
"violent anguish ",
"crowd (of people or things); ",
"strangle; regulate the speed of with a throttle; N: valve that regulates the flow; CF. throat ",
"block or hinder; baffle; frustrate ",
"touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter; please ",
"miser; excessively frugal person ",
"handle used to move boat's rudder (to steer) ",
"quality of a musical tone produced by a musical instrument (which distinguishes it from others of the same pitch) ",
"lack of self-confidence or courage ",
"fearful; timid; demonstrating fear ",
"give a slight degree of a color or quality to; N: slight degree of a color or quality; Ex. tinged with grey/jealousy ",
"slight degree of color; V: give a tint to ",
"drink (alcoholic beverages) frequently; N: alcoholic drink ",
"long angry denunciatory speech; diatribe; harangue; extended scolding; denunciation ",
"gigantic; N. titan ",
"tax of one-tenth (contributed to a church); V: pay a tithe ",
"tickle; excite pleasantly; Ex. not to titillate the audience but to enlighten it ",
"name (of a book, film, etc.); mark of rank; formal appellation as of rank or office (such as Lord or General); right or claim to possession; championship; Ex. title as head of the family; Ex. title to the estate ",
"nervous giggle; nervous laugh; ",
"of a title; in name only; nominal; having the title of an office without the obligations; Ex. titular head of the company ",
"servile flatterer; yes man; sycophant; V: be a toady to; fawn ",
"Roman outer robe ",
"outward sign; Ex. a token of our gratitude ",
"sound (a large bell) slowly at regular intervals; N: sound of a bell; fixed tax or charge ",
"large volume; book ",
"shaving of the head especially by person entering religious orders; V. ",
"physical features of a region (such as the shape and height); CF. topo-: place ",
"become unsteady and fall down ",
"underwater explosive apparatus; V. ",
"lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy; ADJ. torpid: lethargic; lazy; inactive; (of an animal) dormant; hibernating ",
"twisting force; force producing rotation ",
"rushing stream; flood; Ex. The rain fell in torrents. ",
"(of weather) hot or scorching; passionate; Ex. torrid love affairs ",
"trunk of statue with head and limbs missing; human trunk ",
"winding; full of curves; Ex. tortuous mountain road ",
"throw lightly; move or lift (the head) with a sudden motion; flip (a coin) to decide something ",
"animal, plant, or natural object serving as a symbol of a clan or family; representation of this; Ex. totem pole ",
"shake or move unsteadily; sway as if about to fall ",
"causing a feeling of pity or sympathy; pathetic; V. touch: cause to feel pity or sympathy; ADJ. touched ",
"stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion; standard ",
"oversensitive; easily offended; irasible; delicate; needing delicate handling; Ex. touchy situation ",
"promote or publicize (one's goods or service); praise excessively (as a form of advertisement); CF. advertise ",
"poisonous; N. toxicity ",
"propaganda pamphlet (esp. by a religious or political group); expanse of land; region of indefinite size; system of related organs; Ex. digestive tract ",
"docile; easily managed; (of something) easily changed or molded; N. tractability ",
"expose to slander ",
"path taken by a projectile; Ex. trajectory of a bullet ",
"walk with a heavy step; travel on foot; N: vagrant; one who travels aimlessly about; long walk; sound of heavy walking ",
"step heavily with the feet; crush under the feet ",
"hypnotic state; ecstatic state; detachment from one's physical surrounding (as in contemplation or daydreaming); CF. transition ",
"calmness; peace ",
"exceeding ordinary limits; superior; surpassing; V. transcend: go beyond; exceed; surpass; N. transcendancy ",
"going beyond common thought or ideas; impossible to understand by practical experiences or practices; known only by studying thoughts or intuition; OP. empirical; CF. transcendentalism ",
"copy; write a copy of; N. transcription ",
"violation of a law; sin; V. transgress: go beyond (a limit); violate; do wrong ",
"staying for a short time; momentary; temporary; N: one that is transient ",
"going from one state of action to another ",
"transient; impermanent; fleeting; N. transitoriness ",
"partly transparent ",
"transform; change; convert to something different ",
"permitting light to pass through freely; easily detected; obvious; clear; Ex. transparent lie ",
"(of a fact) become known; be revealed; happen; give off (watery waste matter) through pores ",
"strong emotion; rapture; Ex. in a transport/transports of; V: move to strong emotion; enrapture ",
"reverse the order or position of ",
"outward decorations; ornaments (as an outward sign of rank) ",
"(of an experience) deeply shocking; pertaining to an injury caused by violence; N. trauma: serious wound; emotional shock that causes lasting psychological damage ",
"strenuous work; toil; painful labor; labor of childbirth ",
"go through or across ",
"copy or example of something that completely misrepresents the true nature of the real thing; comical parody or imitation; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous; Ex. travesty of justice; OP. paragon ",
"walk; trample; N: grooved face of a tire; horizontal part of a step ",
"keep as precious; cherish ",
"article treating a subject systematically and thoroughly ",
"travel; journey; V: make a long difficult journey ",
"trembling; slight quiver (as of the earth or from nervous agitation) ",
"trembling; wavering ",
"cutting; incisive; keen ",
"fear; nervous apprehension ",
"suffering; ordeal; distress; trial ",
"court of justice ",
"official of ancient Rome elected by the plebians to protect their rights; protector of the people ",
"tax levied by a ruler; payment made by one nation to another in acknowledgment of submission; mark of respect (such as praise or gift); Ex. pay tribute to ",
"flow in drops or in a thin stream; N. ",
"person who cheats people ",
"three-pronged spear ",
"something of little importance or value; small amount; Ex. a trifle; V: treat without seriousness; flirt ",
"trivial; unimportant ",
"set off; start ",
"group of three related works (connected by a shared subject but each complete in itself) ",
"make neat or tidy by clipping; reduce by removing what is unnecessary; ornament; decorate (round the edges); Ex. trim the cost; Ex. jacket trimmed with fur; N. ADJ: tidy; in good order ",
"knickknack; bauble; cheap jewelry ",
"hackneyed; commonplace ",
"trifles; unimportant matters ",
"pledge of good faith especially in betrothal; betrothal; Ex. by my troth ",
"long narrow container for feeding farm animals; lowest point (of a wave, business cycle, etc.); long narrow depression as between waves ",
"aggressiveness; ferocity; ADJ. truculent: aggressive; pugnacious; fierce ",
"self-evident truth ",
"cut the top off; shorten ",
"main wooden stem of a tree; human body excluding the head and limbs; torso; prehensile nose of an elephant ",
"meeting arranged by lovers; arrangement between lovers to meet ",
"(of a part of the body) swollen; distended; bombastic; pompous ",
"commotion of a great crowd; riot; noise; uproar; ADJ. tumultuous: noisy and disorderly ",
"rolling treeless plain in Siberia and arctic North America ",
"(of a liquid) having the sediment disturbed; muddy; thick ",
"state of violent agitation; ADJ. turbulent: violently agitated or disturbed ",
"deep dish for serving soup ",
"swollen; distended (as from liquid) ",
"extreme confusion; great commotion and confusion; Ex. throw the country into turmoil ",
"traitor ",
"depravity; baseness; Ex. moral turpitude ",
"guardianship; training; function of a tutor; instruction ",
"protective; pertaining to a guardianship; Ex. tutelary deities ",
"wealthy and powerful businessperson; wealthy leader; magnate; Ex. business tycoon ",
"tropical hurricane or cyclone ",
"oppression; cruel government; ADJ. tyrannical: of a tyrant or tyranny; despotic; V. tyrannize: treat tyrannically; oppress ",
"beginner; novice ",
"being everywhere; omnipresent; N. ubiquity ",
"sore place appearing on the skin inside or outside the body; Ex. stomach ulcer; ADJ. ulcerous; V. ulcerate ",
"intentionally hidden; beyond what is evident; situated beyond; unstated and often questionable; Ex. ulterior motive ",
"final; not susceptible to further analysis; fundamental; Ex. The sun is the ultimate source of energy. ",
"last demand; last warning; last statement of conditions that must be met; Ex. They have ignored our ultimatum. ",
"resentment; anger; sense of injury or insult; Ex. take umbrage at his rudeness ",
"unexplicable; impossible to account for; unreasonable or mysterious ",
"complete agreement; ADJ. unanimous ",
"not open to attack; impregnable; not subject to question ",
"unsatisfied; not soothed ",
"modest; Ex. the champion's unassuming manner ",
"violent; uncontrolled; Ex. unbridled rage/greed ",
"strange; mysterious; Ex. uncanny knack ",
"not done politely without due formalities ",
"unscrupulous; not guided by conscience; excessive; beyond reason; Ex. unconscionable demand ",
"boorish; clumsy in speech or behavior; outlandish ",
"the act of anointing with oil; Ex. extreme unction ",
"oily; bland; insincerely suave ",
"done slyly and secretly (being dishonest) ",
"lying below; fundamental ",
"weaken gradually; sap; dig a mine beneath ",
"underline; emphasize ",
"state with less truth than seems warranted by the facts; Ex. He understated the seriousness of the crime; N. understatement; OP. overstate ",
"funeral director; one whose business is to arrange burials ",
"moving with a wavelike motion; V. undulate; CF. und: wave ",
"dig up; discover (facts) by careful searching; Ex. He unearthed some secrets about her; OP. conceal ",
"not earthly; supernatural; weird; ghostly ",
"plain; clear; obvious ",
"infallibly; ADJ. unerring: making no mistakes ",
"entirely acceptable; not offering any basis for criticism ",
"steadfast; firm; not changing ",
"genuine; real ",
"liberate; free from chains; V. unfetter ",
"immature; not having the feathers necessary to fly; CF. fledgling ",
"defrock; strip a priest or minister of church authority ",
"(of someone) awkward in movement; clumsy; (of something) unwieldy; Ex. ungainly dancer/instrument ",
"ointment ",
"sameness; monotony; ADJ. uniform: the same all over ",
"one-sided; involving or affecting only one side; Ex. unilateral declaration ",
"that cannot be impeached; beyond doubt or question; blameless and exemplary ",
"unrepressed; free in behavior and feelings ",
"unfrightening ",
"without an equal; single in kind ",
"unity of pitch (in musical performance); complete accord; Ex. The choir sang in unison. ",
"characterizing or affecting all; general; present everywhere; of the universe; cosmic; Ex. universal agreement; Ex. a subject of universal interest ",
"disheveled; uncared for in appearance; not combed; CF. comb ",
"(of something bad) not moderated; unrelieved or immoderate; without qualification; absolute; Ex. unmitigated disaster ",
"inconspicuous; not blatant ",
"having no previous example; novel; unparalleled ",
"unattractive ",
"disentangle; solve ",
"making no attempt to change one's bad practices ",
"not requited; not reciprocated; Ex. unrequited love ",
"disobedient; lawless; difficult to control ",
"distasteful; disagreeable; morally offensive; Ex. unsavory activity/reputation ",
"unharmed; Ex. escape the accident unscathed ",
"unbecoming; not proper in behavior; indecent; Ex. leave with unseemly haste ",
"ugly; unpleasant to look at ",
"untarnished; CF. sully ",
"(of a position, esp. in an argument) indefensible; not able to be maintained ",
"unexpected and adverse; unfortunate or unlucky; Ex. untoward encounter ",
"unjustified; having no justification; groundless; baseless; undeserved ",
"awkward (to carry or move); cumbersome; unmanageable ",
"not knowing; unaware; unintentional; Ex. She was their unwitting accomplice; Ex. unwitting insult; CF. wit: know ",
"unaccustomed; unusual; Ex. He arrived with unwonted punctuality. ",
"reprimand; severely scold ",
"(sitting or standing) straight up; honest; moral ",
"noisy confusion ",
"marked by commotion or uproar; very noisy (esp. with laughter); hilarious; causing loud laughter; extremely funny ",
"outcome; final result ",
"suave; refined in manner; elegant ",
"mischievous child (usually a boy); CF. urchin: hedgehog; CF. porcupine: pig with spikes ?; CF. sea urchin ",
"drive or force forward (by causing impulses); drive to take action; impel; entreat earnestly; Ex. urge horses; N: impulse that prompts action ",
"compelling immediate action; pressing; persistent; importunate; Ex. urgent in his demands ",
"bearlike; pertaining to a bear ",
"act or manner of using; accepted practice; way in which words are actually used ",
"seize another's power or rank (without legal authority); supplant; appropriate; N. usurpation; CF. take for one's own use ",
"lending money at illegal high rates of interest ",
"ideal place, state, or society; ADJ. utopian ",
"excessively submissive or devoted to one's wife; CF. uxor: wife ",
"walk through a substance, such as water, that impedes movement ",
"speak equivocally about an issue; N. ",
"move gently (in air or in seas) by wind or waves; Ex. leaves wafting past the window ",
"shake repeatedly from side to side; Ex. The dog wagged its tail; N: humorous person; wit ",
"begin and continue (a war) ",
"humorous; mischievous; tricky ",
"homeless child or animal; Ex. waifs and strays ",
"give up temporarily; yield; N. waiver: waiving a right or claim; document that waives a right or claim ",
"trail of ship or other object through water; path of something that has gone before; Ex. hunger followed in the wake of the war ",
"roll in mud; indulge in; (of a ship) roll in a rough sea; become helpless; Ex. wallow in the mud/luxury ",
"having a pale or sickly color; pallid ",
"strong longing to travel ",
"decrease in size or strength (after being full); grow gradually to an end; Ex. The moon waxes and wanes every month; N. ",
"achieve by cleverness or trick; wiggle out; fake; Ex. She tried to wangle an invitation to the party. ",
"unrestrained; gratuitously cruel; willfully malicious; unchaste; sexually improper; promiscuous; Ex. wanton spending/killing; CF. having no just cause ",
"(of a bird) sing; babble; N. ",
"administrative division of a city; division in a hospital or prison; incompetent person placed under the protection of a guardian; V: guard; ward off: avert ",
"twist out of shape; N. ",
"justification; written order that serves as authorization (esp. a judicial writ); Ex. search/death warrant; V: justify; guarantee ",
"justified; authorized ",
"guarantee; assurance by seller ",
"tunnels in which rabbits live; overcrowded living area; crowded conditions in which people live ",
"very cautious; watchful ",
"waster; profligate ",
"move or swing back and forth; be uncertain or unsteady in decision or movement; Ex. wavering between accepting and refusing ",
"increase gradually (as the moon); grow ",
"ambush; lie in wait for and attack ",
"accustom a baby not to nurse; accustom (the young of a mammal) to take nourishment other than by suckling; give up a cherished activity; cause to gradually leave (an interest or habit); Ex. wean oneself from cigarettes ",
"tired after long work; V. ",
"pass safely through (a storm or difficult period); endure the effects of weather or other forces ",
"eerie; strange; unnatural ",
"of good upbringing; well-mannered and refined ",
"raised mark from a beating or whipping ",
"wallow (as in mud or high seas); lie soaked (as in blood); Ex. The victims weltered in their blood. ",
"deceive, persuade, or obtain by flattery; cajole; coax; Ex. wheedle a promise out of her ",
"young animal (esp. of the dog or cat family); young wolf, dog, tiger, etc. ",
"sharpen; stimulate; Ex. whet someone's appetite ",
"puff or gust (of air, scent, etc.); short-lasting smell; hint; Ex. whiff of perfume/scandal ",
"sudden capricious idea; fancy ",
"capricious; fanciful; amusingly strange ",
"whim; tendency to behave amusingly strangely; Ex. story full of whimsy ",
"complain (in a sad voice); make a high sad sound (as in pain or supplication) ",
"neigh like a horse; CF. neigh: make the sound which horses make ",
"small amount; smallest speck; Ex. not a whit of ",
"pare; cut away thin bits (from wood); fashion in this way; reduce gradually; trim ",
"conducive to mental or physical health; healthful ",
"ring of leaves around stem; ring; circular arrangement; Ex. whorls on the fingers ",
"wriggle; move from side to side with irregular twisting motions ",
"wilful; intentional; headstrong ",
"flexible; pliant; slender; CF. willow ",
"loose freshness; droop ",
"crafty; cunning; artful; N. wile: deceitful stratagem ",
"move back suddenly; shrink back; flinch; Ex. She winced as she touched the cold body. ",
"fallen fruit; unexpected lucky event ",
"sift; separate the chaff from grain by blowing; separate good parts from bad; CF. wind ",
"charming (in a childlike way); agreeable; gracious; engaging ",
"small bunch (of hair); faint streak (of smoke) ",
"thin; slight; barely discernible ",
"sadly thoughtful (because of desires or memories); sadly pensive; vaguely longing ",
"introverted; retiring; remote remote/distant in manner; aloof ",
"(of a plant) dry up from loss of moisture; lose freshness; shrivel; decay ",
"refuse to give; hold back; Ex. withholding tax ",
"stand up against; resist successfully ",
"lacking intelligence or wit; foolish; idiotic ",
"witty saying; wisecrack(clever joking remark) ",
"sorcery; magic ",
"shriveled; withered; Ex. wizened apple/old lady ",
"great sorrow; deep inconsolable grief; affliction; suffering; Ex. financial woes ",
"sad; (of something bad) deplorable; deplorably bad; Ex. woeful housing conditions ",
"(the stated person's) habit or custom; habitual procedure; ADJ. wonted: customary ",
"engrossed in matters of this earth; not spiritual; of the material world ",
"quarrel noisily; obtain through arguing; herd cattle; N. ",
"anger; fury ",
"inflict; Ex. wreak one's vengeance on ",
"twist; pull; strain; Ex. He wrenched the gun out of her hands. ",
"obtain by pulling violently; pull away; take by violence; Ex. wrest victory from their grasp ",
"miserable person; bad or despicable person; ADJ. wretched: miserable; bad; contemptible; vile ",
"twist (to extract liquid); extract by twisting; wrench painfully (necks or hands) ",
"small ridge on a smooth surface (face or cloth); V. ",
"written command issued by a court (telling someone to do or not to do something) ",
"twist in coils; contort in pain ",
"stubbornly wrong ",
"(esp. of an expression of the face) twisted; with a humorous twist (expressing displeasure) ",
"fear or hatred of foreigners; N. xenophobe ",
"strong desire; longing; urge; Ex. yen for travel ",
"man or farmer owning small estate; middle-class farmer ",
"amount produced; crop; income on investment; profit obtained from an investment; V: produce; give in; surrender ",
"join together; unite; N: crossbar used to joining two draft animals ",
"rustic; country bumpkin; ",
"time long past; Ex. in the days of yore ",
"comic; crazy; N: clown; comical person (given to outlandish behavior) ",
"eager enthusiasm (to a cause or ideal); ADJ. zealous ",
"one who is zealous; fanatic; person who shows excessive zeal ",
"point directly overhead in the sky; summit; acme; highest point ",
"gentle breeze; west wind ",
"outer skin of an orange used for giving a special taste to food; spice; interest; flavor; spirited enjoyment; Ex. add a certain zest to the affair; Ex. zest for life",
Raw